Silver-based catalyst is currently used for production of ethylene oxide since itprovides both adequate activity and selectivity. Under the normal productionconditions the selectivity of epoxidation reaction is relatively low resulted from the lowoxygen surface coverage. In practice a small amount of halogenated hydrocarbon isadded to the gas stream for inhibiting deep oxidation. Therefore it is desirable to findan alternative to replace this toxic compound. The objectives of this research were tostudy the effect of gold as promoter on silver catalyst over Degussa C Al2O3 and alsoto investigate the effect of supports which was TiO2. Catalyst activity experiments forethylene epoxidation were carried out by using a differential reactor. For 13.18% Ag onDegussa C Al2O3 gave the optimum ethylene epoxidation. An addition of 0.54% goldon 13.18% AgAl2O3 maximized the activity with the ethylene oxide selectivity up to90%. In contrast Ag on TiO2 was poor catalysts for ethylene epoxdation. As expectedAuTiO2 gave a good trend for ethylene epoxidation but still obtained a lower yield thanAgAl2O3. Among the prepared catalysts in this research Au-Ag on Al2O3 is the bestcatalyst for ethylene epoxidation
The main purpose is to increase the ability of the participants to complete a circle of scientific procedure by studying weather data which can be acquired from eight weather stations around the country. All the data is gathered and is placed on the LESA website www.lesaproject.com. In2004 three scientific camps were set up. The participants students and teachers were trained to collect data analyze them by using computer software and present their academic reports on posters and research documents as well as on electronic journals. At the end of the project sixty-two young scientists thirty-three teachers from nineteen schools had been trained and twenty-six research documents were written. Moreover since the application of the data came from different parts of the country the participants understood not only their own climate but also that of others. This creates a cooperation among the students and teachers around the country which is the new educational dimension in Thai society. Above all it is the beginning of an international cooperation namely: The Thai – New Zealand exchange students program and the NASA CloudSat Education 
Fall is a common problem in the elderly. Fall mostly results from impairment or loss of balance. Loss of balance in the elderly is usually accompanied with fear of falling and weakness of lower limb muscles. Fear of falling is a factor influenced on the balance ability.This study investigated the balance ability in Thai elderly with and without fear of falling. The study also compared the activity of lower limb muscles during anterior perturbation.Objectives: To investigate the balance ability in the elderly and the relationship between fear of falling and balance including the influence of the knee and ankle musculatures on balance.Methods: Sixty males and females Thai elderly aged 65-80 years volunteered in this study.They were classified into two main groups; one having a fear of falling FF 15 males and 15females and another without the fear NFF 15 males and 15 females. Balance ability was evaluated by mean of the measurement of change in center of pressure in term of limit of stability during postural change to maximal forward and backward leaning on the force platform on which they were standing. The onset time of of the right lower limb muscle activity such as tibialis anterior rectus femoris biceps femoris and gastrocnemius medial head was also detected during anterior perturbation.Results: There was a statistically significant difference p<0.05 in the value of limit of stability maximum excursion during forward leaning in the male –non fear group comparing with other groups. The male-non fear group had the greater value of limit of stability. In comparison with the fear of falling group the non fear group had the greater value of limit of stability maximum excursion and direction control in backward leaning which was statistically significant different p<0.05. The tibialis anterior firstly responded to anterior perturbation in order to keep the balance. The onset time of the tibialis anterior in non fear group was statistically different from that of the fear of falling group p<0.05. However there was no difference of the onset time of tibialis anterior between male and female viConclusion: Fear of falling is a factor that diminishes the quality of movement decreases the physical capability which consequently results in weakening muscles. Fear of falling can cause impairment of balance and therefore can increase the frequency of fall. Strengthening exercise of knee and ankle musculatures accompanied with balancing exercise can be the way to alleviate and prevent this problem.
In this era of information technology not only adult but children can easily access to the internet. There is an emerging desire of using internet to get knowledge from various sources. At present there are still a large number of websites which are full of many inappropriate contents for children. One solution is to allow the children searching sources themselves following the advice of parents or teachers. In addition if there is a set of recommended websites with useful advisory declaration it will help children be able to connect among them. It will also be another tool to indicate the right way of accessing internet for children. This program is aimed to propose a way to protect the explicit media out of the internet by using the knowledge-base prevention. Therefore many activities were arranged to achieve that goal. The past activities of ask friends to surf websites were focused to two target groups which are 6-18 years old Thai children and Thai parents. The website of www.plawan.comfamily is the home to host programs members. Moreover another objective is to wake up the network of junior researchers in cyberspace by challenging the young members to find out and analyze then summarize all available and valuable websites. All research results of youngsters were conveyed through the www.plawan.comfamily . According to this procedure this program can finally achieve the goals aiming to have a full list of precious websites which is fit to the need of children because the choose themselves. Then the next activity was to camp the members of ask friends to surf websites together adding the workshop of analyzing and judging media from internet which both children and parents participated. They shared their opinions among childhood group while also got advice from adults. As a result the program can define all websites into 5 categories which are; 1. Health : website number is 99 links 2. Music : website number is 71 links 3. Science and Technology : website number is 194 links 4. Sport : website number is 78 links 5. Hobby : website number is 298 links After the program finished there are 100 websites joining in affiliation and 7049 members counting until June 30 2005. In addition the website www.plawan.com became the hub of communication for members since then.
It is generally agreed today that intellectual property plays an important role in economic growth. Intellectual property is referred to in the framework of WTO and FTA negotiations in trade merchandise production and in everyday life as well as in literary works and the entertainment sector. IP protection is a popular issue discussed everywhere and everyday. Thailand has provided legal protection of IP for more than 100 years. It is member of various international agreements and conventions. However the attention was given only to protection of IP rights and IP law enforcement. IP creations and commercialization have so far received very little attention. In fact all the four components are important and interdependent; not a single one can be ignored. Innovation in product inventions and IP commercialization are instrumental to the 10competitiveness of a country. Therefore human resource development in creativity is necessary for it is the basis for the countrys growth.Up until now IP development in Thailand has been carried out in varied scattered directions. The Thailand Research Fund TRF being well aware of the vital need for a national policy and strategic plan in developing an IP-oriented society has funded Chulalongkorn University Intellectual Property Institute CUIPI to do a research on the Roadmap and National IP Strategy. The research focuses on compilation of ideas and experiences of various sectors See attached name list. Approximately 10 brainstorming sessions have been conducted with participants consisting of 70 researchers from CUIPI and other institutes including foreign experts invited through the Kenan Institute Asia. The outcome was a national roadmap and strategies in intellectual property in the form of a 5-year and 10-year plan that covers the main components of IP namely IP creation commercialization rights protection and law enforcement. Recommendations are provided in detail in the concluding section of the research work. It is with fervent hope that the research result will be useful to the development of the nations competitiveness that Thai people will be more innovative-minded and Thailand will progress to become a truly IP society eventually.
At the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992 in Rio deJaneiro Brazil the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC was ratified. The Convention sets an ultimate objective of stabilizing greenhouse gas emissions at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system. Consequently at the Third Conference of the Parties held in Kyoto a Protocol to the UNFCCC was adopted in 1997 known as Kyoto protocol or KP. One of the mechanisms initiated under KP to achieve the greenhouse gas GHG emission reduction goals under UNFCCC is Clean DevelopmentMechanism CDM. In the meantime the European Community EU initiated the so-calledIntegrated Products Policy IPP with aims of imposing various measures and obligations to achieve environment-friendly production systems. These two measures UNFCCC-KP and IPP have one thing in common; they promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emission. For IPP there is the possibility that IPP regulations will be imposed to EU trading partner. Thus this unavoidably affects all issues related to GHG emission and manufacture in Thailand since Thailand may be forced to comply with IPP regulation. As a result effects of these measures on trading between Thailand and the EU has emerged and become an issue of concerns.Study of UNFCCC implementation reveals that Thailand has fulfilled the voluntary commitment as a member of non-Annex I country. These include the submission of NationalCommunication on GHG Inventory establishment of National Committee on UNFCCC and climate change to oversee the implementation of UNFCCC in Thailand and establishment of the focal point for international cooperation within the scope of UNFCCC.Since the time of ratifying UNFCCC scientific research activity in Thailand on GHG emission has been progressed substantially. Raising public awareness is one of the achievements.There is also more interest on activities leading to GHG emission reduction environmental protection and the situation of world oil supply. This is true especially in energy sector. National policies on utilizing biomass and other renewable energy have been adopted and partly implemented. In the transport sector use of bio-ethanol has been promoted to reduce fossil fuel import. Mass transit system using trains has been proposed countrywide. In industry and waste sectors clean technology and utilization of biogas methane have been introduced.Under KP Thailand can cooperate to reduce GHG emission through participating in CDM project. However in CDM Thailand should emphasize the cooperation with the developed countries to develop the greenhouse gas emission reduction technology per se rather than importing or buying the finished technology from them. This scheme of CDM will help promote sustainable development in Thailand. Thus implementation of CDM project should consider the overall effects on Thailand well-beings as well as on the long-term advantages and disadvantages of CDM on future economy and security. It is also important that Thailand sets the appropriate negotiation tactics for not being exploited by the developed countries while maintaining the appropriate Thailand positions in eyes of the world community.Implementation of UNFCCC not only directly affects greenhouse gas trading but also indirectly affects technology development for reducing greenhouse gas emission. To effectively participating in trading and developing new technology while Thai competitiveness in world market is maintained certain measures and policies need to be streamlined and implemented. These include policy on energy and environment improving infrastructure and scientific research both to establish knowledge database at present and to establish readiness for coping with future changes.In case of IPP the study reveals that the life cycle of a product supply side considered under IPP encompasses the aspects of product concept and design manufacturing process material and energy consumption and packaging. In all aspects the issues of maximizing overall efficiency and minimizing the effects on environments are emphasized. The life cycle on demand side starts from the consumer en route to the end of the product lifetime or until the time that such product cannot be re-cycled or reused. All of these processes consume energy and generate wastes that affects to environment quality. The effects of energy consumption on environment can be seen clearly when the amount of energy consumed is directly converted into the amount of greenhouse gases generated and the global warming potential index. Thus this necessitates the links between IPP greenhouse gas emission reduction potential and trading. Although greenhouse gas emission is not directly concerned with trading but it could be considered as the reason for imposing trade barriers. Therefore this will affect the potential for Thailand to compete in the world market especially with the EU countries that already have more advance technology for GHG reduction. If enforced to adopt such technology in Thai manufacturing system it may unavoidably increase the capital cost thus reduce the competitiveness for Thai products in the world market. Although implementation of IPP in EU countries is currently at the communication step in the near future it may be applied as one of the measures to reduce GHG emission and may have significant consequences on Thai foreign trading. Thus a close observation on its implementation is necessary. Analysis results of strength and weakness for Thailand to counteract with UNFCCC and IPP reveal that the strength for Thailand lies in the robust energy policy. The energy policies such as promoting the domestic production and utilization of renewable energy promoting the efficient utilization of energy the policy to improve transport infrastructure all are in line with moving towards reducing greenhouse gas emission in the future. However how to fully and effectively implement these policies to fulfill the objectives is the main weakness. The weakness also includes insufficient cooperation among organizations lack of skilled staffs at implementation as well as at negotiation levels low level of awareness and understanding among public due to poverty inefficient development for renewable technology more energy consumption-prone of industry in the future due to rapid economic growth and lack of database and basic research to support greenhouse gas emission reduction in various sectors.Literature reviews and analysis imply that strategic approach in the future should focus on preparing the country to counteract with the implementations of foreign measures both those are already in place and are to be coming into effects. To cope with the uncertainty the approach must be based on thorough preparations and planning effective networking and cooperation among organizations. This will help reduce risk and buffer the adverse effects that might occur. Such approaches should be applicable for the purpose of reducing greenhouse gas emission associated with the existing foreign measures as well as with the new ones that will emerge. To increase potential of domestic organizations for counteracting such foreign measures it is important to be thorough. There should be the process that in addition to strengthen the existing network and organization should help cope with any changes and developments in the future. To achieve this the current study proposes to proceed through two main approaches. The first approach aims to re-structure the domestic organizations and the second one aims to help prepare for managing risk and uncertainty in the future.For plans and actions to be executed efficiently organization structuring is needed.Accordingly this study proposes to establish the Climate Change Center. The Center should be under The Committee for UNFCCC or the specific National Committee that is directly in charge of climate change issues. This Center will be a focal point in executing policy involving foreign countries cooperating with official and private organizations involved in implementation of government policies performing scientific and technical evaluation and analysis of issues managing public relations and communication and transferring relevant information and knowledge to public.The organization is divided into three units including 1 Science Program 2 Impact Adaptation and Vulnerability Program and 3 Mitigation Policy and Trade Program.Due to greenhouse gas emission reduction and exchange of emission right is directly linked to emission characteristics of sources and in order to support with uncertainty management in the future it is necessary to have good and reliable database for individual economic sector. Such database should enable the identification of opportunity and appropriate approaches that lead to greenhouse gas emission reduction. The database should provide the overall figure of country emission inventory in order to support policymakers in making decision on issues related to greenhouse gas emission. This could also help facilitate the evaluation of current as well as future emission baseline that supports future emission reduction scenarios and policymaking.To be ready for IPP implementation and other issues associated with IPP measure developments of policy that leads to reducing environmental impacts are proposed. Such approaches should be well-established before or at the time when IPP is coming into effects.Especially emphasis should be placed on developing the tools for counteracting the IPP implementation. Such may include the issues of having proper and timely legislation processes and implementation.
Statement of ProblemThailand has dual tracks policy to promote export of trade in health services and at the sametime to provide universal coverage for health insurance to Thai people. This results in expansion of tradein this area and subsequently may have impact on the provision of services to Thai population. It isnecessary that researches in the area of trade in health services have to be conducted to provideknowledge and recommendations to policymakers in responding to the expansion of health-related tradeliberalization and reduce the negative impact on heath of Thai population.Main objective of this study is to provide framework for researches in the area of trade in healthservices in the next 3 years 2004-2006.Research MethodologyDocumentary research was used to compile information data and researches at both nationaland international level. Steering committee was established to provide guidance and recommendations tothe research team.Results:Four research areas are proposed for each mode of trade in health services i.e cross bordersupply consumption abroad consumer presence and presence of natural person as follows:1. Situation and trend analysis of trade in health services in four modes of trade.2. Study on law regulation condition and policies related to 4 modes of trade in health services.3. Study on impact of trade in health services to health system in Thailand and ways to minimize thoseimpacts.4. Study health-related sectors that Thailand has potential to develop and has competitive advantages.Six research topics receive high priority as follows:1. Study to prepare for bilateral agreements between Thai and U.S China India Australia Bahrain andJapan.2. Study on situation of foreigners receives services in Thailand and the competitive advantages ofThailand compare to other countries such as Singapore and Malaysia.3. Study on situation on foreign direct investment in Thailand.4. Study on opportunities and potential for Thailand in investment in other countries such as VietnamCambodia Myanmar and China.5. Study on impact of liberalization of trade in presence of natural persons in health services and casestudy of impact on mutual recognition among EU member countries.6. Study on potential of Thailand to trade in mode 1 on cross border supply with main focus on tradewith U.S.A and competitive advantage study between Thai and India.
The study aims to: 1 conduct situational analysis on trade measures and their impactson Thailands competitiveness; 2 analyze issues and constraints on trading regulationsand agreements facing Thai traders and negotiators focusing on the knowledgerequired for sustainable trade promotion; and 3 provide recommendations on strategicframework for research on Thailands trade negotiation and development. Data andinformation for the study were complied from a series of individual and groupconsultations with stakeholders in governmental academic and private sectors as wellas from a number of secondary sources. The results of the study reveal the fact thatsince all trade negotiations concern national interests and economic benefits it iscrucial that negotiators are fully aware of the overall situations and circumstances andare well-prepared for the negotiation andor confrontation. Lessons learned fromThailands trade negotiations in the past include the lack of institutional and individualcapacity to effectively cope with trade-related regulatory and compliance issues. Thestudy recommends a series of action to be undertaken by the concern agencies incooperation with private sector and academia. This includes institutional streamlining paying more attention to advice from the private sector investigation on pre- and post-negotiation issues through policy research and in-depth case studies clear provision of trade-related standards and development of knowledge platforms for trade measures.
In the processes of electronics and jewelry factories workers are employed to use their skill intiny visual tasks 1-3 mm that cause visual strain leading to early visual deterioration. Nowadays there is no study concerning health effect of workers especially vision even though government has tried to support these kinds of factory. This study is to develop practical guidelines for health and environment management through participation of factory personnel. For financial support the study is supported by Thai Health Promotion Foundation and Thailand Research Fund. The researchers used participatory action process by implementing into 2 stages: 1 study of visual health situation of those workers and factors affecting their visual strain. Subjects were sampled to be 472 workers from 7factories. Data collection was carried out by using interview questionnaire Titmus vision tester digital flicker value tester and lux meter. Then guidelines for health and environment management were drafted. 2 The drafted guidelines were tried in the selected factories and data collection was repeated to compare with the first collected data. Finally practical guidelines were completed. Data were analyzed by using statistics namely percentage Chi square Mann Whitney Test and Wilcox on SignedRanks Test.Results: Most sampled workers were females aged less than 25 years. Workers have to use 10x magnified lens to gaze at visual task. It was found out that 52% of workers had vision not appropriate to work. According to illumination measurement in 472 areas 48.3% of those areas were found lower than standard. The average of CFF was found to be significantly different after 1-hour work and 2-hour work compared to that of before work p-value = 0.002 0.000 . The study also showed significant difference of CFF among the workers who worked in standard and understand ardillumination in workplaces p-value = 0.000. These results necessitate a workshop for brainstorming among workers safety officer  researcher and experts in drafting practical guidelines for health and environment management. The guidelines were applied in the factories for 6 months until data collection were repeated.After the guidelines were applied in the factories health and environmental conditions were investigated to show their improvement. Interventions of the factories in the project were as follows:improvement of lighting condition at visual task taking a rest break after 2-hour work health education relevant to work and eye correction for a near visual task among 12% of workers. Prevalence of จvisual strain was found to decrease after the interventions. The results in the study show that working environment and conditions could affect visual strain among the workers. Therefore taking a rest break during work implementing vision test together with eye correction appropriate to work and improvement of working environment should be managed properly in factories. Participation of workers developing the peer leaders and coordination among them will be the capacity building of the factories in visual surveillance. The government especially health sectors should support knowledge and control the quality of services.Due to the fact that all processes in factories require visual tasks this study recommends longterm visual impact assessment among workers who are exposed to illumination level higher than 1000lux. Moreover appropriate work duration and rest time in each working day should be studied to prevent visual strain and early visual deterioration. A study on improvement of quantity and quality of performance related to visual health cares of workers in the factories should be considered in a viewpoint of economics.
The objective of this research is to develop standard codes for pig production management system and quality assurance program in pork supply chain with respect to foot-and-mouth disease. To achieve the objective the free foot-and mouth disease standard requirement criteria of pig farm management pig abattoir pork processing plant and traceability on pork supply chain were developed. The pilot standard requirement criteria was administered on 6 pig farms and 2 pig abattoirs and 2 pork processing plants in order to test and refine the standard codes. In addition public hearing among stakeholders from pig farms pig abattoirs pork processing plants including veterinarians and government officers was held to improve and refine the standard codes. At present the free foot-and-mouth disease standard for pig farm management was distributed to swine practitioner for pretest and evaluation.
The method for protein hydrolysate production from Eri silk Philosamia ricini were investigated. Proximate analysis of 2 raw materials silk cocoon and silk pupa showed different chemical compositions between the 2 materials and therefore resulting in separately different protein hydrolysate productions. The approriate process for silk cocoon began with cutting the nondegummed cocoon into small pieces and then dissolving into homogeneous solution by boiling in the mixture of CaNO32ethanolH2O 0.6:2:8 mole at the ratio of cocoon to mixture 6:100 wv. After that the silk solution was enzymatically hydrolysated using 1.0 % Alcalase vw for 60 min. at pH 7.5 temperature 60 ° C with stirring. The resulted show the highest degree of hydrolysis obtained from the above condition at 83.78 % with nitrogen recovery 77.80 %. For the production using silk pupa as starting material the process started by blending fresh pupa into fine particles and the water was added to adjust final protein concentration to 4.6 % ww. The pH was adjusted to 7.5 commercial enzyme Alcalase was added to 0.5 % vw and the process was carried out at 50 ° C for 120 min. with stirring. The maximum degree of hydrolysis resulted from this condition was 73.27 % with nitrogen recovery 62.82 %. The protein hydrolysates from both silk cocoon and pupa were freeze-dried ground into fine powder and analysed. The results indicated that the two hydrolysate products were capable of well dissolving in water and were as high quality as the commercial products.
The crude extract of mango Mangifera indica L. leaf containing magiferin as a main active component have potential to use as antioxidant for supplement in animal feed. However the viscous semisolid extract has difficulty in mixing homogeneously with solid animal feed. The aim of this study is to convert the mango leaf extract from viscous liquid into dry solid powder by using suitable adsorptive carriers; i.e. silica Sipernat 22S 50 2200 maltodextrin DE 2 9 18and spray-dried chitosan prepared from 0.4% 0.5% and 0.6% chitosan solution chiotan 0.4 0.50.6. The crude extract of mango leaf was prepared by maceration with methanol and evaporation to yield 16.28-20.00% dry viscous extract which contained 2.21-2.82 mg mangifer in in 20 mg of crude extract. When mixing with various amounts of carries it was found that silica had the highest adsorptive capactity followed by spray-dried chitosan and maltodextrin respectively. As the amount of carriers increased the dry powder having better flow properties was obtained. The results indicate that the lowest amount of carries resulting in dry powder with mildly cohesive were 20-25% silica 70% maltodextrin and 30% chitosan. The stability of the dry powders of20% Sipernat 50 70% maltodextrin DE 18 and 30% chitosan 0.6 was investigated at room temperature 30oC and 45oC. The results show that all dry powders were stable at room temperature for 4 months; however only the dry powders of 20% Sipernat 50 showed good stability at 45oC for 4 months. In conclusion the dry powders of 20% Sipernat 50 showed good properties and high stability which had potential to be further developed into food supplement to use in animal feed.
The thermal inactivation of foot-and-mouth disease virus serotypes O A and Asia1 were determined at 50 60 70 80 90 and 100oC in phosphate buffer saline. The observed inactivation curves are linear linear curve with shoulder and linear curve with a tailing biphasic curves. For linear curves D-values were analyzed by linear regression. The difference of lag time of curves with shoulder tL and D-value of the overall curves were employed to determine whether the shoulder effect existed. For curves with tailing D-values were proportionate to the virus reduction of two combined inactivation phases. Ranges of D50 D60 D70 D80 D90 and D100 of 6FMDV strains were 732-2414 16.37-42.00 6.06-10.87 2.84-5.99 1.65-3.18 and 1.90-2.94seconds respectively. Ranges of Z-values of FMDV serotypes O and A were 21.78-23.26 and19.11-22.79oC respectively and Z-value of FMDV serotype Asia1 was 18.50oC. The Z-values ofFMDV strains studied were not statistically significant p>0.05. The result of this study demonstrated that heat resistance of FMDV strains studied was not different but it was much less than foreign epidemic FMDV strains.
Study on risk factors of foot and mouth disease virus FMDV and pathogen contamination on pork in slaughtering and cutting process was performed into two parts; part I was FMDV contamination and part II was pathogen contamination. Growing-finishing pigs were selected from farms in 4 provinces; Chachoengsao Chonburi Rayong and Chanthaburi where were in FMDV free zone and killed in export-standardized slaughterhouse in Chachoengsao.The experiments in part I were conducted throughout the year in three periods; first period Jul.-Sep. 2004 second period Nov. 2004-Feb 2005 and third period May-Aug. 2005. Three farms in individual province were chosen at each period. While nine pigs were randomized for samples collection each time with total number of pigs at 324. Questionnaire and interview the drivers from farm to slaughterhouse were done in order to evaluate the risk factors of FMDV contamination during transportation. Observation of FMD-like symptoms on pigs before being slaughtered revealed erosion and swollen of feet lameness with blanching of the skin around coronary bands and vesicular lesions blisters on the ankles. The percentage of pigs with FMD-like symptoms found was highest in third period at 33.3% whereas second period at 9.41% and third period at 11.1%. There was no antibody against FMDV non-structure protein detected neither by ELISA kit from Intervet nor UBI company. Moreover detection of FMDV using Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction RT-PCR from samples collected during slaughtering process showed positive result only once at the third sample collections from the first period. FMDV was detected in six out of eight esophageal fluid samples one in blood sample and another in muscle sample at cutting table. Whereas swab samples from each pig-loaded truck gave all negative results.Study of pathogen contamination on pork in slaughtering and cutting process was demonstrated only one period Nov. 2004-Feb. 2005 on Salmonella spp.  Escherichia coli and total bacterial count. Samples were collected once a week. Samples for Salmonella spp. were collected 14 times by randomized 3 pigs each time while samples for E. coli were collected 12 times. Whereas total bacterial count was conducted by randomized 5 pigs each for 14 times.The sample collections were done in 3 steps: 1 ante-mortem; by swabbing truck and lairage before and after pigs loading about 100 cm2 and collecting sprayed water in pig lairage: 2 slaughtering; by collecting water in scalding vat before and afte scalding process swabbing pig carcass before and after scalding  splitting and pre-chilling process about 100 cm2  swabbing sticking wound about 25 cm2 collecting blood sample  sprayed water after splitting and large intestine content: 3post-mortem; by swabbing pig carcass after chilling at 4 °C for 24 hours about 100 cm2  swabbing knives hands cutting tables before and after work about 100 cm2 and pork tissue at 25 cm2. All samples were analyzed within 12 hours. MPN FDA-BAM 1992 method was used for Salmonella spp and E. coli and serovar of Salmonella spp was confirmed by Ministry of Public Health. Pour plate method FDA-BAM 1992 was applied to total bacterial count study. The result showed that at the ante-mortem steps was the best source of the Salmonella contamination of pig carcass. Contamination percentage was 92.31 % and 85.71 % of live pigt ransported from farm to the slaughterhouse and at the lairage respectively with the amount ofSalmonella from 3 to > 1100 MPN100 cm2. In the slaughtering process Salmonella contaminated carcasses before scalding found at 73.81 % and 14.28 % after scalding. On the sticking wound found42.88 % Salmonella contamination and the contamination remained on the carcasses after splitting and before chilling at 16.67 % and 9.42 % respectively with the amount of 3 to 27 MPN100 cm2. However there was no Salmonella spp. detected in the water sprayed on the carcasses after cooling at 4 oC for 24hours. But on cutting knives and board the contamination was at 7.14 %.Most of Salmonella spp. serovars found were S. Rissen and S. Stanley. Furthermore S. Bovis was isolated in pig feces from farm in Rayong Province where there were a lot of cattle husbandries.The factors of E. coli contamination of pig carcasses in ante-mortem processes were mainly on transportation of live animals from farm and in the lairage where E. coli > 1100 MPN100 cm2 was isolated. Whereas in lairage water < 3 MPNml of E. coli was detected. In the slaughtering process the mean number of E. coli contamination was about 778 MPN100 cm2. In addition to the amount of E. coli isolated from sticking wound on carcasses after scalding splitting and before cooling was 6MPN25 cm2  9 MPN100 cm2 8 MPN100 cm2 and 3 MPN100 cm2 respectively. However there was no E. coli found in hot water before and after scalding and sprayed water on carcasses after splitting. The contamination in the cutting process was found on pork tissue only 3 MPN100 cm2 during cutting but not after chilling at 4°C for 48 hour. Swabbing of knives personal hands and cutting boards before and after using found 4 MPN100 cm2 of E. coli .The total aerobic count on vehicles from farm to the slaughter house was 1.4 x 106 cfucm2 while in the lairage before and after animal resting was 6.4 x 104 and 2.3 x 105 cfucm2 whereas in water supply at lairage was 5.5 x 102 cfuml. The total count on the surface of sticking wound carcasses before and after scalding was 3.4 x 104 1.2 x 105 3.1 x 104 cfucm2 respectively but after spitting the total count on the pork surface was only 2.1 x 102 cfucm2. The figure showed reduction of total count after each slaughtering step. Although before chilling it was at 60 cfucm2 the figure increased to 2.3 x XIX102 cfucm2  due to air blast chilling at 4 oC for 48 hours. In the cutting processes the mean number of total count on meat tissue was 1.6 x 105 cfug that was lower than standard figure requirement of Department of Livestock.
Antibiotic residue in poultry products causes consumer safety concerns and also effect on poultry exportation. Several attempts have been made to find the herbs for substitution of using antibiotics as a growth promoter. Scientific evidences showed that Andrographis paniculata was one of the potential herbs which may be supplemented to the poultry food. The aim of this study was to develop premix from andrographis ethanolic extract. In this study seven carriers such as tapioca starch corn starch rice starch sticky rice starch mung bean starch and lactose were used for absorbing andrographis extract. The physical compatibility between the extract and carriers was carried out using differential scaning calorimetry The chemical stability was determined by high performance liquid chromatography. The results showed that rice starch was a good choice for selected as a diluent for develop premix in form of powder and granule. The ratio between the extract and the starch after dried at 40 60 and 80 oC for 3 hours was not affected the stability of andrographolide. After undergone the accelerated condition andrographis granule was found to be more stable than the powder. Its shelf life was approximately 2 years. When the granule was scaled up to 50 kilograms using the extract bought from the government pharmaceutical organization and Kaolaor company the granules size was 603 µm. The flowability was excellent. Per cent loss on drying was as low as 3.96. The amount of andrographolide however was only 1.48 %. Cost per unit of granule excluded the quantity of andrographolide the amount of granule on process losing equipment depreciation and cost of electricity was 953.29 baths. If the cost of andrographis extract from each source was calculated separately the cost per unit would be between 680.69 and1225.89 baths. In conclusion andrographis premix should be prepared in granule form using wet granulation technique. Due to the ethanol in the preparation it is recommended to leave the ovenajar during drying granule at 55-60 oC. the granule size should be between sieve no.2040. The packaging should be able to keep the relative humidity lower than 67.35% by either placing silica gelbag to control humidity or using vacuum bag and light protection. In case of using androgarphis granule for making food pellets undergo 80 oC 3 min. The stability of andrographolide and total lactones was not affected. However the manufacturer has to be aware of the compatibility between the andrgraphis granule and other ingredients in the food pellets.
To accomplish a simple and precise methodology for identification of molting stages in blue swimming crabs Portunus pelagicus color and a translucent zone between the old and the new cuticle degree of separation of the outer edge of dactylopodite of both female and male crabs were monitored under a magnifier. Furthermore changes in abdomen color of female crabs and the appearances of inner line abdomen of male crabs were investigated.For our commercial soft-shell crab farm wild crabs were classified in three groups based on their external carapace width 8.1-9.0 cm 9.1-10.0 cm and 10.1-11.0 cm prior to be raised in cement and earthen ponds. According to their molting stages crabs were fed with fresh yellow tail fish at feed ratio of 10-20% based on their body weight. However no feeding when crabs were at their D3-D4 molting stages.It was found that the molting stage of blue swimming crab was precisely identified via monitoring color degree of translucent zone of dactylopodite the proportional of color steaks in abdomen female crabs and the appearances of inner line in abdomen of male crabs. At A stage deep purplish red line was recognized in all crabs. While crabs at B stage the proportional color of abdomen was 69% deep purplish red line 28% pink line and 3% green lines. The higher proportional of pink to green was found on crabs at C1-C3 stages. However red line was particularly occurred only at C3 stage. The proportion of red color in abdomen increased from 59% to 90% and the translucent zone became larger from D1 to D3 stage. The translucent zone did not appear during A-C3 stages. The coloration of abdomen in female crabs also changed throughout the molt cycle. At A stage of female crabs abdomen color was black while gray or brown was found in abdomen of female crab during B-C1 stages. AtC2 stage the proportion of white color became higher while brown color was dominant at C3stage. The ratio of black color from D1 stage to D3 stage was obviously increased and recognized in all crabs at their pre-molt stages. For male abdomen the inner line occurred during D2-D3 stages and it was obvious line at D4 stage. It was not found during A-D1 stages.Size increment after molt and molting period was significantly governed by the initial size of crabs P<0.05. Molting period of larger crab was significantly longer than that of the smaller one P<0.05. Nonetheless the percentage of size increment of smaller crab was significantly higher than that of the larger one P<0.05. When considering of payback period net profit and rent it was concluded that initial investment and variable cost of cement pond which survival rate at 70% was higher than those of the earthen pond at 40% and 100% respectively. The small crab 8-9 cm CW is the best chance for soft-shell crab production for both cement and earthen ponds because the net profit was equal or a little higher than those of the larger one while the investment was lower. The net profit of soft-shell crab production for both methods will be feasible when survival rate is higher than 50%.
Determination of total cyanide contents in eri silkworm fed with cassava leaves was performed by acid hydrolysis method. All stages of eri silkworm had the total cyanide contents of 0.91-4.01 ppm. The cyanide contents were in the same range of the silkworm mulberry leaves and castor leaves. Total lipid of pupae and moths eri silkworm wastes was extracted with chloroform:methanol = 2:1 vv with the percentage of 17.54 - 31.62 by dry weight. Semi-purified lecithins were performed by 3 different methods namely SPE–silica column acetone precipitation and alcohol fractionation. SPE–silica column acetone precipitation and alcohol fractionation gave yields of 2.85 ± 0.56 6.29 ± 0.95 and 8.79 ± 0.53 % by weight respectively. Purified lecithin was scraped from TLC plate and eluted with appropriate solvents with yield of 3.49 ± 0.99 % by weight. Semi-purified lecithins was digested with phospholipase A2 into lysophosphatidyl lecithin or modified lecithin and free fatty acid. The optimum condition was using semi-purified lecithins 50 mg phospholipase A2 2.5 unit and incubation time of 2 hours. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of phospholipids from semi-purified lecithins purified lecithin and modified lecithin were performed by TLC and HPLC. Six kinds of phospholipids were found in pupae and moths of eri silkworm wastes lysophosphatidyl choline phosphatidyl choline or lecithin phosphatidyl ethanolamine phosphatidyl serine phosphatidyl inositol and phosphatidyl glycerol. The majority of phosphoplids in acetone precipitation and alcohol fractionation methods was phosphatidyl choline 50% where as the majority in SPE-method was phosphatidyl serine 79.11%. Purified lecithin from TLC gave the purity of 97.82%. Modified lecithin was successfully digested with phospholipase A2 yielded lysophosphatidyl choline and free fatty acid products. The antioxidant activities of semi-purified lecithins purified lecithin and modified lecithin were determined with compared to commercial lecithins. Semi-purified lecithins from acetone precipitation and alcohol fractionation methods demonstrated the same highest activity range %S and SC50 of 26.3 1 ± 3.17 25.35 ± 3.14 and 250.63 ± 43.42 µgml 284.38 ± 30.84 µgml respectively. Purified lecithin gave emulsifier properties with the highest emulsion stability with the lowest concentration of 50 mg and the smallest particle size 3.13 µm.
A test kit for determination of total lactones in Andrographis paniculata has been developed. It is based on the reaction of andrographolide dinitrobenzoic acid and potassium hydroxide. In this work a colorimetric analytical method which correlates to the reaction for the test kit has been developed and verified see appendix. Decolourising of the sample with charcoal at the ratio of 1:0.5 gave a colourless solution suitable for the visual determination. Addition of a decolourising agent to eliminate the interference cause a lost at the average of 1.33%. Thus the account for these effects had to be taken in the test kit formulation. Ethanol was compared to chloroform acetonitrile and methanol for efficiency of extraction however it was found that ethanol was the best solvent in term of positive and negative interference. A small plastic spoon a small and large plastic straw with a straight and slope ending were test for the suitability for measuring the sample. A small plastic spoon was proved to be the easiest and gave the highest precision rsd 5.54%. The minimum observable amount is 6 µg the observable amount that eye can discriminate is 6 µg in the range of 6-24 µg beyond this point it is very hard for eye to discriminate accurately.The kit is used for determination the total lactones whether it is complied to the standard minimum requirement of the Thai Herbal Pharmacopoeia 6%. Although the minimum content requirement is the original purpose when this test kit was developing however if the content is higher than the minimum requirement a rough amount can be determined if required by diluting the sample with the solvent provided and redetermine the colour reaction.The test kit is stable at room temperature and works well under the room temperature condition. However at40 °C the solvent evaporated a significant amount thus the test kit should be stored at room temperature.
This research has 3 objectives : 1 to study the development of model of child center by local community organization by using local wisdom at Tambon Baan Waen Hang Dong District Chiang Mai Province 2 to study the operation and management of the child center by local community organization and 3 to study the result of local community usage applying to manage all childrens activities at the child center. The approach of action research will be applied to the study.The study revealed that the development of child center by local community organization at Tambon Baan Waen Hang Dong District Chiang Mai Province has 8 step as follow : step 1 studying real condition of the child center. Step 2 informing the result to the community. Step 3 Understanding the result and learning together. Step 4 Planning together step 5 forming the board of the child center. Step 6 Searching the model of management of the child center. Step 7 developing the child center. And step 8 evaluating the model of management of the child center. The process of the development is to develop Tao Boonreung Chiang Center by forming the board of the child center. The members in the community select the board. The structure of administration can be divided into general affair public relation personal affair academic affair 5community relation affair public finance and supplies for example. Each affair has its own board.The local wisdoms used in the child center are the local ways of raising children the local way of family association folk tales and folk toys of children local food and hubs for raising children local mottoes and beliefs for raising children folk plays nursery rhymes and environmental setting for developing children.The results of using local wisdoms are gaining activities to develop children by using local wisdoms and the community realize conscientiously to enhance their local.The factors which lead to achievement are the leader of the community the power of the community the budget in the community and the travelers of leno ledge. The factors which lead to obstructions are peoples realization the contradictions of the leaders idea and the school principles idea and the obscurity of the policy of the government about educational transference.The suggestions of the research are 1 it must the planned to renovate education for local community. 2 before study community students must be trained prepared. 3 it is very important and necessary to inform cuing information to the community. 4 managing education by using research and using local resources in community is an approach of managing tertian education.There are further studies recommended : 1 cooperative action researches and cooperative action developments in good management of local educational management. And 2 researches and developments of preparative models in local education transference.





The developing the monitoring and evaluation mechanism of the National Long-Term Plan for the Elderly is an outcome from the research works under the Program Monitoring of the 2nd National Long-Term Plan for the Elderly in Thailand and the Data Synthesis for Policy and Plan Development project conducted by the College of Population Studies with support from Thailand Research Fund and National Health Foundation. The current study is a policy research that employs the methods of brainstorm discussions questionnaires and interviews in order to develop the monitoring and evaluation mechanism for the 2nd National Long-Term Plan for the Elderly in Thailand to adjust and suggest additional indices for the plan and to compile a manual as an evaluation standard. In developing the monitoring and evaluation mechanism the research team has adopted the Quality Assurance system of Chulalongkorn University and the external quality evaluation system for higher education of the Office of National Education Standards and Quality Assurance by proposing two approaches: 1 to develop an overall monitoring and evaluation system in both short and long terms in which the evaluation process comprises of the pre-evaluation evaluation and the post-evaluation operation and 2 to improve the monitoring system for the performance of relevant organizations on elderly-related issues in which the overall monitoring and evaluation mechanism is conducted by a neutral organization or commission under the supervision of the sub-committee appointed by the National Commission on the Elderly with the Division of supporting and protecting the elderly acting as the secretary and the monitoring system for the performance of the various organizations on the elderly-related issues in accordance with the framework of the individual organizations. For the indices appeared in the plan it is recommended that a certain number be removed adapted and that a certain number be included for proper indices. The organizations are then able to select the indices that conform to their vision and mission on the elderly and the key is to be equipped with systematic and continuous data in order to formulate and compute these indices on the same standard. Nonetheless if the first evaluation of the 2nd National Long-Term for the Elderly in Thailand in 2007 is required to be completed in time the Ministry of Social Development and Social Security must allocate the 2005 budget for specific research in order to compile supplementary data for evaluation and analysis indices. The expense for the first round will be higher compared with the subsequent rounds because it is essentially the construction of the database and the evaluation system. Furthermore neutral organizations should be selected to evaluate and monitor the overall elderly plan.


This policy-oriented research covers 4 main issues. First it reports the progress of mission administration reform or what is widely known as the CEO ambassador administration system which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has undertaken over the past two years. Second it looks for initiatives and innovation in terms of management and policy implementation that can be cited as best practices for organization learning and development. Third this report suggests some management and planning tools e.g. strategic mapping and planning that can be applied to improve coordination and integration among various agencies responsible for conducting foreign affairs as well as among different foreign-policy strategies. Finally this report proposes a model for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to develop performance evaluation mechanism and inspection system.
The projection of population in Thailand points that Thai society is going to transform to the so-called the aging society as many developed countries within 2 decades. One factors is the decline of total fertility rate which has been decreased sharply to be under the replacement level. In Thailand the effect of such fertility decline and its effective countermeasures should be paid more attentions. In this research we focus on the so-called child related policy in Thailand especially from three aspects. Those are firstly its characteristics from international comparisons point of view secondly its converage and thirdly the effect of benits of child related policy on fertility. The structure of characteristics of child related policy in Thailand is not much different from that of other countries. As fiscal welfare Thailand has income deduction namely Child Deduction and Child in Schooling Year Deduction  which are aimed to decrease tax burden of taxpayers. Thai families attain various types of benefits under the scheme of social protection. There exists no universal child allowance scheme as in many countries. Family in some work status or occupations can attain defined contributory benefits i.e. the members Social Security Fund and Private School and Headmaster Assistance Fund. Veterans and their family are eligible for comparatively long term assistance. Moreover some special groups can attain some assistance-in-cash or in-kind in short term. Unfortunately besides maternaity leave which is 90 days paid leave there are no parental leave or parternity leave in Thailand at present. Using 81656 families data drawn from 1% data of the Population and Housing Cencus in 2543 we found that 64.8% of whole samples families have no eligibility for contributory benefits or public employee welfare scheme in other words neither husband nor wife are not in the economic status that can attanin child benefits. Whilst 35.2% of whole samples can access such benefits. Among the latter type of family 17.1% of samples are the family that both husband and wife can access child benefits. 18.1% of samples are the familty that either husband and wife can access child benefits both. Using the same data set we investigated whether the status of ability to access child benefits affects the familys decision making on having or not having additional child. We found that child benefits accessablility of family does not affect the possibility of having additional child significantly at various level of data namely nationwide urban-rural area double income families single income families wife is housewife. Nevertheless child benefits accessablility of family does positively affect the possibility of having additional child significantly when we considered only the family with wife who is 15-29 years old. The types of family that response to child benefits are the families that both husband and wife can access child benefits and either husband or wife are in the status of government officals or public companys employees. Another economic factor that affect the possibility of having additional child significantly is the schooling year of female. Thus from public policy viewpoint not only the expansion of coverage but the child cares long term support and child rearing leave measures should be taken in an account in the future.
Effects of crude palm oil supplementation on tocopherol and tocotrienol concentrations in blood adipose tissue liver egg yolk and cholesterol concentration in egg yolk of laying hens Kris Angkanaporn * Phakakrong Areerob * Winai Dahlan  Abstract Effect of crude palm oil CPO on vitamin E tocopherol and tocotrienol concentrations in blood adipose tissue liver and egg yolk was examined. The study was divided into 2 experiments. A preliminary trial experiment I was designed to examine the adverse effect of CPO in layer chicken. Ten 48 weeks old Hisex laying hens were equally divided into two experimental groups control 0% CPO and 2% CPO group. Parameter on hen performance egg performance and egg quality at weeks 0-6 and cholesterol concentration in egg yolk at weeks 4 5 and 6 were determined. The result showed that CPO had no effect on daily feed intake hen weight. There was no significant difference in egg specific gravity and yolk color in control group and CPO group. Egg weight and yolk weight of CPO group were significantly higher than control group at weeks 3 and 6 egg weight and weeks 5 and 6 yolk weight P<0.05. Cholesterol concentration in egg yolk was slightly decreased in CPO group. In experimental II 144 hens 49 weeks old Hisex hens were equally divided into 4 groups receiving 4 different treatment diets. The treatment diets included CPO at 0 control 2 3 and 4% respectively. Egg performance hen performance and egg yolk cholesterol weeks 0 4 5 and 6 were examined as described in experiment I. Egg yolk adipose tissue abdominal fat plasma and liver of laying hens were determined for tocopherol and tocotrienol concentrations using HPLC. The results demonstrated that weight gain daily feed intake hen-day basis percentage specific gravity albumin quality albumin weight and shell weight were not different among experimental groups. CPO increased egg yolk color egg weight approximately 2 g yolk weight approximately 2 g when compared to control group. CPO significantly decreased egg yolk cholesterol in weeks 4-6 of the experiment with the lowest level in hens fed on 4% CPO 11.89 mgg yolk. CPO enhanced P<0.05 total tocopherols in CPO1 2% CPO and total tocotrienols especially CPO2 3% CPO and CPO3 4% CPO groups. Hens fed on CPO 3 4% CPO had the lowest total tocopherols in egg yolk and adipose tissue but had the highest tocotrienol in plasma egg yolk and adipose tissue when compared with other groups. CPO supplementation resulted in the highest deposition of tocotrienol in adipose tissue compared to egg yolk liver and plasma. In conclusion CPO had no adverse effect on performance of laying hen. Supplementation of CPO at 3 and 4% improved FCR of hen and significantly increased egg yolk color egg weight and yolk weight. CPO significantly reduced egg yolk cholesterol. Laying hens supplemented with CPO 4% CPO had more vitamin E deposited in egg yolk and adipose tissue than control with the highest level of α-tocopherol α- and γ-tocotrienol. * Department of Physiology Faculty of Veterinary Science Chulalongkorn University Bangkok 10330 Thailand  Faculty of Allied Health Science Chulalongkorn University Bangkok 10330 Thailand.
The objectives of this project is to determine the method and technical information needed for scaling up the production of Fahthalaichone Andrographis paniculata  crude extract to a pilot scale. The research activities were focused on the extraction of the active ingredients and drying of the crude extract. The raw material was crushed dried leaves and stems of Fachthalaichone and the solvents were 85% and 95% ethyl alcohol. Comparison of the percentage yields of extracted andrographolide a major active ingredient using 85% and 95% ethyl alcohol in a laboratory scale showed that 85% ethyl alcohol is a better solvent. When the ratios of the raw material to 85% ethyl alcohol are 1:5 and 1:10 the yields are 77 and 95 percent respectively. A 50-litre stirred tank with a side-entering 45° pitched blade turbine and a 15° off-centre angle of the shaft used in a pre-pilot scale extraction showed good performance indicated by a uniform distribution of Fahthalaichone particles averaged size of 0.09 mm in ethyl alcohol. The extraction experiments using 85% and 95% ethyl alcohol with the ratios of the raw material to the solvent of 1:5 and 1:10 and the agitator speeds ranging from 560 to 1120 rpm showed that the extraction rate does not depend on the agitator speed and the extraction reached equilibrium at 6 operating hours. The extract solution was concentrated by a rotary evaporator to 2-6 weight percent of solid. The concentrated extract solution was dried in a vacuum dryer at the pressure of 200 mmHg. Lactose was added to the solution when drying the product. The smallest weight ratio of lactose to solid in the solution used in this research was 2:1 for the batch in which the sample was stirred every 30 minutes during the drying period. The final product having 4.4 weight percent of andrographolide and 3.2 percent moisture content was obtained after drying at 55 °C for 20 hours crushing into powder and drying for two more hours.



This research is to develop a roadmap for supporting the development of green products with life cycle consideration in Thailand. The information survey were conducted to obtain the current status of the green products in Thailand and in the globe. Then a group of stakeholders from various organizations shared their opinions. Finally the plans with relevant activities responsible organizations and timeframe were proposed.
To develop the hospital informatics system for small rural hospital and primary care unit under the main hospital more than 50 hospitals in 2 years together with the data warehouse. The study shown achievement of 67 hospitals implement this software. The success came from the non-IT hospital staff were trained to use and maintain the system from their self-study phone or online support from core group and the most important from the network of hospitals who use the same system. 5 hospitals join the data warehouse project. The system administrator accessed to their information and can identified error then feed back to operation to improve data input which made their data more accurate and meaningful. Hospital management committee can use all data for health planning and budgeting. This model together with critical mass of participant hospitals shown significant grow-up of the community and can be used to magnify the implementation of hospital informatics for another thousand small rural government hospitals which can earn the effectiveness and sustainable system those will benefit to health care system and especially for the people in the Timbuktu.
The objective of this research is to study on the potential of local foods and drinks for tourism especially in Changwat Krabi Phang-Nga and Phuket. Other objective is to study the popularity of local foods and drinks among tourists in these provinces.The data in this research are consisted of secondary and primary data. Primarydata was collected from the entrepreneurs tourists by using questionnaires and in-depth interviews. This data was analyzed by using the frequency and percentage. This research can be summarized as follows:Local foods and drinks have a role play in the tourism market by encouraging special foods and drinks enhancing local products and diversity and can derive benefits and contribute by conserving local resources cultural and or environmental of which these elements are dependent factors for tourism development. The relationship between tourism and local foods can also be incorporated under the concept of sustainable tourism development which has received greater attention in the literature recently. If the entrepreneurs are using local products in the community this maysustainable path for rural development. One successful example is in the local 27restaurant of Changwat Krabi Phang-Nga and Phuket respect to foods as much as possible by obtaining locally traditional and regional recipes. The local agricultural and fishing communities can benefit from the use of local resources. This research is to examine potentials of local foods and drinks as image of tourism destinations and significance to the visitors.This research is focus on the potentials of local foods and drinks for tourism in tourism regions. It is recognized that local food is a core resource in tourism regions in Changwat Krabi Phang-Nga and Phuket. One of the questions is whether the consumption of local food has an equally strong meaning to the tourists visiting. Theforeign tourists were asked whether they would like to try a new local dishes when theyare traveling. Numerous tourists search for the identity of regions and places they visit.Given a local flavor such products literally present a taste of a locality. Changwat Krabirespondents 81.35 % Changwat Phang-Nga respondents74 % and Changwat Phuketrespondents 81.5% confirmed this interest. The denotation can add to tourists experiences of an area. These figures indicate a relatively strong general interest in local foods. This research is highly correlated with the tourists interest in visiting. Tourism and local foods have the potential to work together in a symbiotic relationship. MoreoverTourism promotion focus on local foods products which may stimulate tourist demand; while local food promotion may focus on the regional and lead to a growth in tourism.The market linkages between tourism and local foods has been developed by theregional. Recommendation :By promotion and development in local foods and drinks for tourism Changwat Krabi has a potential as fresh vegetables sea food producer and local food distributors Changwat Phang-Nga has a potential as fresh and organic vegetables seafood souvenirs Changwat Phuket has a potential as sea food producer and local food distributors. 28Further the study should examine the cognitive influences of local foods and drinks media on tourist perception contribute information for tourism development and promotional strategies of both food providers and tourist attractions. Future studies could address this by investigations at multiple sites in Thailand into promoting the benefit of a formal local foods and drinks designation. In this case local food may contribute significantly to the diversity and richness of cultures and identities different tourism regions.
This study attempted to analyse and carry out a comparative study of thedestination image of Phuket Krabi and Phang Nga in every tourism product thatincluded attractions accessibility accommodation activity and destination facilities andamenity. Destination image is considered as one of the important mechanisms in tourismplanning and marketing as it is one of the important and highly influential factors intourist-decision making process.This study revealed many similarities and differences between destinationimages of these three provinces. Phuket is seen favourably in terms of its variety oftourism products offered to tourists. On the other hand it is not seen positively as are laxing and peaceful destination and suitable for all people and many tourists voiced their concern over its environmental conditions. The favourable images of Krabi however included the beauty of natural sceneries the relaxing atmosphere and the friendliness of local people while tourists viewed Krabi negatively in the cleanliness of 4tourist attraction aspect. Similarly Phang Nga is viewed favourably as a relaxing and peaceful destination while its negative images are the readiness and availability of destination amenity and activity. In addition the study also revealed that all three destinations shared the same negative images in the aspects of accessibility and destination amenity. Based on these results several recommendations were thus made for all stakeholders involved in tourism planning of Phuket Krabi and Phang Nga with regard to the positioning of three provinces as well as the planning implications.
The objectives of the study Tourist Satisfaction with Tourism Products in Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi are twofold. Firstly it aims to measure the satisfaction level of tourists in relation to the tourism products in these specimen Thai provinces i.e. Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi. Secondly it seeks to identify any problems and the reasons of them that may cause tourist dissatisfaction. The term tourism product as defined in this research includes five components the 5 As namely Attractions Access Accommodation Activities and Amenities. Service quality product quality and price the three major factors of satisfaction are also incorporated into this research.The findings from this research in fact reveal that almost all components of tourism products from the selected area are rated satisfied by the tourists. The accommodation sector receives the highest level of satisfaction in all three provinces and particularly so in Phuket and Krabi. When comparing the overall tourist satisfaction levels that are found in these three provinces it appears that tourists are more satisfied with the tourism products available in Phuket than those in Krabi and similarly with those in Krabi compared with those in Phang Nga respectively. These findings are shared by the majority of hosts i.e. those managers both in the private sector and in government bodies who are responsible for tourism management in each province. This study reveals that there are similar problems to be found among the tourism products available in these three provinces. In fact Access and Attraction are the two areas that post most concerns. As a result the researchers therefore propose a set of recommendations suggesting that all three provinces cooperate in resolving the mutually shared problems to address effectively the concerns that have been expressed by both tourists and hosts.

The purposes of this study were to look into the conditions and capability of The Cho Hae Municipality including its Community of Ban Tham Muang Moo 4 and Mushroom Farmers Group and to find out Collaborative learning designs that fit the farmers who enrolled in an informal education  Vocational Education fot Rural Development Project and formal students with the communitys involvement in learning how to increase the value of waste straw from mushroom cultivating area. The study was conducted in the community of Ban Tham Muang Moo 4  Cho Hae Municipality Muang District Phrae Province. Since it was participatory action research the data collecting tools included participation and non-participation observations group discussions ideas sharing in-depth interviewing and analysis of secondary data. Terms of study were divided into two stages ; first looking into the holistic community to find out strengths weaknesses opportunities and treats of the community and the farmers group second trying out the collaborative learning designs approved by all participants through learning activities in order to increase the value of waste straw. The findings were as follow: Cho Hae Municipality is an agricultural community with limited cultivating land. Its farmers face inadequate water for irrigation and infertile soil but it has tourism capability. Bam Tham Muang Moo 4 - in Cho Hae Municipality is alike. Most farmers have only small pieces of land not more than 2 rais. They practice rotary cultivation with inadequate water and poor soil. Many of them are unemployed after harvesting period and are in debt. Despite these difficulties these hard-working farmers tried to earn their living by making most uses of land as well as seeking extra jobs. There are many career groups with the best practice and local wisdoms in the community such as mushroom cultivating group which began more than 20 years ago. They cultivated mushroom so that they could get income while waiting for income from crops such as งsoy bean peanut and corn. It turned out that cultivating mushroom helped them get more money. Thus their neighbors learned from their success and adopted the methods. The study of Collaborative Learning design revealed that the first step concerning Knowledge Management in the community in mushroom group and in Phrae College of Agriculture and technology so that the database was available then brain stormed within the group assisted by supportive agents in the area and vicinity. The most likely alternatives received from brainstorming were chosen and the groups research and development plan were designed with the involvement of the community students in Vocational Education for Rural Development Project and formal class students of Phrae college of Agriculture and Technology. It was also found out that Project Writing is the relevant subject that enable the group to get financial supports in the community and from outside. The Collaborative and integrative learning designs complimented in the second period composed of 1 8 to15 - hour - training course with lecturing and demonstrating in the morning and practicing in the afternoon. 2 After learning theories formal class students practice in the social lab- farmers working area in the community. 3 The students of Vocational Education for Rural Development Project and members of mushroom group practiced experimental research process together so the students could finish final report and summited as a part of graduation. 4 The objectives of study tour were clearified discussed and responsibilities were devided among the participants. 5 Students and farmers should practice Project writing together with advisers help.





Participatory action research PAR was conducted in order to explore features of community- based rehabilitation CBR in terms of existing helps or rehabilitation services for persons with disabilities PWDs factors or conditions influencing on success and failure of CBR establishment an appropriate master plan of CBR for Puttamonton district Nakornpatom province. The 15 voluntary researchers were invited to participate with snow ball sampling. They were 4 PWDs 5 community members  2 community leaders 2 professionals  a project assistance and a project leader. Field visits  interviews studying from secondary data and providing public hearing for PWDs and their families were the main data collections. Both quantitative analysis as frequency and percentage including qualitative analysis as typology and interpretation approach were used. The research results revealed that no more helps or rehabilitation services were available for PWDs in community. Until B.E. 2540 some movements of PWDs and professionals were done in terms of disability register and mental supports and rehabilitation referral services. Unfortunately  these helps and services were not only outreach services but also were run by outsiders and lack of community concerns. After conducting this research totaling 179 of PWDs were identified and recorded. In this regard promoting positive attitudes of community toward PWDs collective consciousness of some community members occurring of particular committee of CBR and academic support of Ratchasuda College were identified as the main positive factors for CBR sustainability. In contrast negative attitudes toward PWDs  lack of knowledge and concerns of majority of community members were also identified as the main negative factors for CBR failure . Problems and needs of PWDs and their families including health services occupational and financial supports psychological supports skills and knowledge for rehabilitation equality and participation in community activities education promotion were also identified .According to these preliminary data and community context a comprehensive master plan of CBR for Putthamonthon District was established with in community learning and participation.
The study of foreign-language teaching and the need for foreign languages in the central western and eastern parts of Thailand is a sub-project in the main project Foreign language teaching and needs for foreign languages in Thailand. The aim of the study is twofold. The first is to study the teaching and learning foreign languages in the aforementioned regions from the viewpoints of the school and institute administrators teachers and learners at the levels of primary schools secondary schools vocational schools and universities. The second aim of the project is to study foreign languages from the users viewpoints including employers and employees in four types of business: hotels and restaurants entertainment production and transportation and tourism. Due to the need to cover an extensive area and four education levels together with a limited budget a survey research using questionnaires sent by postal mail was consequently selected for the project. It was found that 19 foreign languages are offered at the university level. English French Italian German and Spanish are examples of the Western languages taught. Japanese and Chinese are examples of the Eastern languages taught. English is taught in every school and institute in the regions studied. For other foreign languages Chinese is taught at all levels but not in every school. Additionally Chinese and Japanese are taught at the primary level but only in private schools. French and German begin mostly in upper secondary schools. English programs are offered because English is a compulsory subject while other foreign-language programs are offered based on market interest or because foreign-language programs reflect the institutes academic potential. The study reveals that most foreign-language teachers have earned a bachelors degree. However they are generally not foreign-language graduates. Thus a lot of foreign-language teachers especially English teachers at the primary level do not feel happy being employed as foreign-language teachers. Teaching problems include big classes which do not allow language practice. Most Thai teachers feel that they are keen in reading skill but not competent in speaking and listening. This deserves special notice since according to the Ministry of education schools at the primary level must offer a program in English in which speaking and listening skills are emphasized. From the point of view of the employers and employees in the business types studied English is the foreign language most wanted followed by Chinese and Japanese. An interesting point to be observed is that in these businesses it seems that the employers hold the idea that the employees foreign-language skills gained from the universities must be adequate and that their employees need no more orientation or additional language programs from the companies.





This is an analytical study of the historiography of the local history of Thailand. It has been presented as a critical introduction for those interested in the various aspects of the subject. It is divided into three sections. The first section gives an account of the status of research relating to the study on the local history of Thailand during the past five decades covering the period from the end of the 1950s. It traces the origin of local historical writing in Thailand in its earlier phases and describes the factors that have come to influence its development over the years especially in matters of purposes and methodogy. The writer in the second section of this monograph discusses the nature of local history and the specific methods deemed peculiar for study of local history. Also raised for discussion is the question whether local history is autonomous and in what way it is related to the social sciences. The discussion focuses particularly on the research methology for community history and on its practical value and role in building community spirit and preserving local identity in the the age of globalization. The third section provides a comprehensive bilbliographical study of works on the local history of Thailand which are arranged in four categories: theses books and research papers articles and works in English.
This study attempted to aggregate data of groups organizations areas that useprinciple of Sufficiency Economy in their living from 13 secondary data sources which havinginformation of projects relating to philosophy of Sufficiency Economy then construct adatabase to disseminate to all interest parties with benefits of transfer and use of suchknowledge and as study cases in curriculum development and learning process regarding TheNew Theory in Sufficiency Economy. Appropriate data after screening consist of 626 setsdispersed in 3 categories; comprehensible in philosophy of Sufficiency Economy 488 sets78% exercise in philosophy of Sufficiency Economy 126 sets 20.1% and outstandingpractice in philosophy of Sufficiency Economy 12 sets 1.9% respectively.The data sets were categorized based on 3 sufficiency-entailing components;moderation reasonableness self-immunity and 2 underlying conditions; knowledge andmorality. Entities having at least one of these 3 components and 2 conditions also theirliving conforms to philosophy of Sufficiency Economy by nature were placed in 1st category.Entities exercising their activities with philosophy of Sufficiency Economy also their data setswere audited by Local Development Institute LDI researchers working in communityorganization networking project for applying philosophy of Sufficiency Economy in family andcommunity levels were placed in 2nd category. Entities having outstanding practice inphilosophy of Sufficiency Economy also some pertaining data sets from Sufficiency Economycase studies development project under Sufficiency Economy Movement Sub-Committee andSufficiency Economy Study Center under National Institute of Development AdministrationNIDA were placed in 3rd category.This study resulted in obtaining electronic database system of groups organizationsareas that use principle of Sufficiency Economy in their living which can be accessed throughwww.sedb.org website. The outcome of this study also includes set of sufficiency indicatorswhich might be beneficial to interest parties in this field and become elementary finding forany continuous development of sufficiency indicators in the future.
The Study of mechanics and model of families support for families of children with disabilities is action research  area of study is in Pratoom thani province. Objectives is study in-family component which make parent cope to their children with disabilities and study system of services to support families of children with disabilities Methodology is quality study by secondary data community surveyin depth interview  observe their daily life  organize group activities parent training on disabilities and rehabilitation  family camp and seminars. Results of study in phase 1 is community acknowledge system of service from community level to provincial level  acknowledge and familiar relationship with families of children with disabilities which recheck with secondary data  found that communities are 2 areas city and urban which are different according to communities  one of group of families is patients of Thammasart Chalermprakiet Hospital and parent group in Klong luang District Tanyaburi District and Lum lookka District. By geography area and services area are inconvenience for parent and children with disabilities at first now is adjusted as policy of services agencies. Phase 2 of study research team implemented play group parent training group meeting  family camp to parent group and children with disabilities individual implement is home program counseling services accessed. Besides of those research team organized seminar and workshop on disabilities for services organizations staffs and health volunteers in area. According to input results are what are knowledge and skill of rehabilitation and caring which parent of children with disabilities are necessary to learn and aware what are know ledges approaches and aware of services providers local workers should do and generalize system of work to support basic services which serve special needs of child with disabilities good system will protect child neglected. The vital process is family strengthening carers and family members by process of learning on caring and rehabilitation know ledges and skills with individual support and leadership development. Leaders of parent group will work not only for themselves but also for community at large. Networking continuous working of parent group leaders is helpful and extended. Conclusions are Process of develop families of children with disabilities start with encourage them to care their children with knowledge and skill  cope to their children as soon as they can  bring their knowledge to daily life practical and make them believe to themselves and their children. More achievement more successful. Supportive system consist of rehabilitation services by interdisciplinary case management integrate program for individual with child oriented. Community support system is possible on health volunteer development training encourages awareness on right based of people with disabilities and develops their knowledge and skill of basic cares. Suggestion of study to policy level is generalize resources for trail model of support parent group self-help group which will be alternative and sustainable.
This research is aimed to study the marketing features of the present Kuan Kanoon RubberAgreement as well as the analysis on strengths weaknesses opportunities and threats SWOTanalysis. The study is carried out to define the appropriate agreement marketing pattern for furtherdevelopment in order to be efficient rubber market. The participatory action research is applied in thestudy. The data are derived by the secondary data which have been collected from the marketingoperation of Kuan Kanoon Rubber Agreement. Meanwhile the primary data are compiled by thesmall group meeting with the subcommittee and members of Kuan Kanoon Rubber AgreementMarket. Moreover the buyers interviews in different aspects which are strengths weaknessesopportunities and threats and suggestions to define the appropriate marketing model of Kuan KanoonRubber Agreement are considered.The research is found that the Kuan Kanoon Rubber Agreement Market is a kind of an operationcooperated between government offices which are Office of Rubber Replanting Aid FundORRAF in Kuan Kanoon District and the ORRAF cooperative club which is united by dry sheetrubber manufacturers. The ORRAF functions as a coordinator among buyers and sellers in order tosupervise them to materialize the future contracts as well as provide facilitations and consultationsin various aspects e.g. venues for delivery activities office equipment etc.The mentioned marketing structure is consisted of a marketing manager who may be theadministrative head of ORRAF or the replanting department head as well as marketing officers of 3parties i.e. price agreement department operation and delivery department and financial department.On the other hand the ORRAF cooperative club is consisted of the marketing subcommittee of 3parties i.e. quality inspection financial department and data and allocation department. Thesepersonnel coordinate with officers of the rubber agreement market in different departments. Thefunctions of the officers and the subcommittee are described as following: -1 Price agreement officers are responsible for price offer and negotiation quantity deliverydate time and place. The subcommittee on information notification and allocation will compile thedata of latex buying price and latex quantity which is ready for delivery from the members. Theinformation will be notified to price agreement officers every Monday and Wednesday weekly.Consequently the officers will have adequate information to offer the buyers for the selling priceonce they approach the market. Besides the mentioned information can be generated into orders to be 4posted on the ORRAF website or forwarded via fax transmission to buyers in order to be informationfor buying consideration.2 The operation and delivery officers are handling the quota allocation quality inspectionand on time delivery as agreed in the contract in both quantity and quality as well as delivery date.The operation will be conducted along with the subcommittee on information notification andallocation in order to consider the production quota for members who are able to produce the qualityproducts as clients requirements. Furthermore the officers will cooperate with the subcommittee ofthe quality inspection department in the supervision and provide suggestions for product developmentto achieve the consistent quality products. In addition the delivery places are mostly defined to be atORRAF in Phattalung Province due to the readiness of the place and equipments.3 The financial officers are focused on the rubber volume calculation and the marketingoperation expense and forward to the financial subcommittee to arrange the evidence of paymenttransaction to the buyers and members. The benefits of the rubber agreement market for the sellersand buyers are described as details.The rubber sellers agriculturists agriculturist groups1 Future price acknowledgement2 Precise agreement in quantity quality and delivery in order to proceed the productionplanning3 The increment of negotiation power4 The marketing cost decrement due to lessened marketing procedures5 The enhance of the production development6 The identification price for selling price determination7 The cooperation and network expansionThe rubber buyers merchants factories exporters1 The receipt of products as requirements quantity quality duration2 The decrement of the marketing cost by collecting the outputs from minor agriculturists3 The ability to plan the raw material consumption4 The ability to control the quality 5Finally the operation of the Kuan Kanoon Rubber Agreement Marketing is only thefacilitation on marketing in order to ease the sellers and buyers to meet one another. The buyers offerthe buying price while the sellers offer the selling price. As a result the price negotiation ismaterialized and then concluded. When the future contracts have been made the officers andsubcommittee of the 3 parties will frame the buyers and sellers to follow accordingly with thecontracts. The above-mentioned market pattern helps increase the efficiency of the market.Consequently the middlemen would be decreased. The manufacturers are capable to sell the rubber inthe higher price. Meanwhile the buyer is able to monitor the price quality and quantity of rawmaterial for long term production.
A novel vortexing-fluidized bed combustor VFBC using rice-husk as fuel was developed and presented. Thecombined characteristics of vortex combustion and fluidized bed combustion are the main features of the VFBCwhich was designed to achieve high thermal capacity MWth m-3 high thermal efficiency and low diameter toheight ratio. The VFBC comprises a vertical cylinder chamber and a conical base which provides a bed forincompletely combusted fuel. The overall dimensions are 1.10 m in height and 0.40 m in diameter. To evaluatecombustor performance the specific feed rate of fuel and mass flow rates of the primary secondary and tertiaryair were varied independently of one another. The combustion appeared into two zones characterized by differentcombustion behaviors i.e. 1 vortex combustion above the vortex ring and 2 fluidized bed combustion belowthe vortex ring. The fluidized bed zone has uniform temperature distributions across the cross-section of thecombustor. The swirling of air above the vortex ring and the vortex ring itself played important roles inpreventing the escape of combustion particulates. Bottom ash appeared as fine black and grey particles of ashwhich ranged in size from 200 to 600 µm. Fluidization could be initiated without the assistance of any inertmaterial mixed into the bed. The experimental results indicated that thermal efficiency did not depend on thesecondary or tertiary airflows but was significantly influenced by the excess air resulting from the combinedtotal of the three airflows. The introduction of the tertiary airflow helped maintaining the temperatureinside the combustor within acceptable levels. According to experimental conditions i.e. a specific feed rate of240 kg h-1m-3 and excess air 157% it was found that the VFBC could achieve an exit gas temperature of1060oC thermal efficiency of 95% and thermal capacity of 0.91 MWth m-3. The amounts of CO2 CO and O2gases emitted were directly related to thermal efficiency and the amounts of CO and NOx were 50 and 380 ppmrespectively. 
This project deals with development of an industrial-scale vortex-fluidized bed combustor VFBC that employs a combination of cyclone and fluidized-bed combustor features and which is demonstrated with rice-husk fuel. The design capacity was 9 MWth. The aim of this work is to gain high combustion intensity and efficiency. The design was based on preliminary basic parameters derived from our previous work on a laboratory VFBC. The combustor was 1.8 m inside diameter and 5.35 m in height. The stirring blades were installed at the combustor bottom to destroy agglomerates that may form and cause serious defluidization. According to performance tests by varying fuel feed rates and primary secondary and tertiary air flow rates it was found that the industrial VFBC was as efficient as the laboratory VFBC. A thermal efficiency of 88-94% was achieved with the industrial VFBC with 75-94% with the laboratory model. Maximum combustion intensity and thermal capacity were 0.67 MWthm3 and 7.5 MWth respectively. The thermal capacity achieved in this state was lower than the design capacity. The temperature inside the combustor ranged between 900-1250 oC which approximated a 1000 oC average bed temperature for the laboratory combustor. CO emission based on 6% O2 by volume was in the range 4000-9500 ppm. The high CO concentration was attributed to too short an exit pipe which resulted inadequate time for burning the CO remaining in the exit pipe. This was the presumed cause of lower combustion efficiency 94-97% than the laboratory combustor >98%. NOx at 6% O2 was in the range 170-420 ppm. The combustor performance met the manufacturers requirements. However in the past few years most rice mills have expanded their capacity. Recently the market share for combustors using rice-husk as fuel became saturated. Alternate biomasses such as corn stubble and cassava must be employed to increase the trend of VFBC utilization in industry.
To assess the reliability and validity of the constructed self-administered physical activity questionnaire the body fat equation using skinfold and anthropometry and BMI for age in Thai children aged 10-18 years. Materials and Methods : Firstly The prototype of physical activity questionnaire PAQ was developed from the items obtained from 30 children using focus group and later sent to 4280 school children all over Thailand. Item selection and factor analysis were used. The final version of Thai PAQ was developed from a prototype PAQ and validated with accelerometer Actigraph CSA model 7164 for 7 days in 566 children. On the next day they completed the self-administered PAQ for the validation process. Then the PAQ was completed again in the next 1-3 days for the reliability analysis. Secondly the body fat equations were developed using the skinfold thickness measurement at different sites weight height age sex and BMI were used as dependent variables. Body fat from DEXA was used as the reference value in 509 children. Bioelectrical impedance using Omron HB-300 was also measured. Thirdly the 4 compartment model was measured in 55 males and females aged 16-18 years. The measurement included under water weighing UWW for body density deuterium Oxide D2O dilution technique for total body water and DEXA for bone mass. Percent body fat 4C was assessed using Baumgartners equation. Fourthly waist circumference was measured at different sites  WC1=at midway between the lowest rib and the iliac crest WC2= at the narrowest waist WC3= at the immediately above the iliac crest and WC4 = at the umbilicus kevel to correlate with body fat from DEXA. Lastly BMI for age was developed using the information from 1967 children around Thailand. Statistical analysis: Percentile paired t-test Pearson correlation simple and multiple regression analysis and Bland - Altman analysis were used. Results: Firstly two forms of the developed physical activity questionnaires for elementary school children and secondary school children were used for the validity and reliability The validity of this group of subject demonstrated the acceptable correlations. 6 The validation was 0.260 and cross validation was 0.33. The intra-class correlation for test- retest repeatability was 0.74. Secondly the body fat equation for male: when Sum skinfold of triceps suprailiac oblique and calf Sum3skf < 50 mm: aged 10 – 12 yr %BF equation = 17.27 + [0.776 x Sum3skf – 0.127 x height in cm]; aged 13 – 14 yr %BF equation = 13.398 + [0.774 x Sum3skf – 0.106 x height in cm]; aged 15 – 18 yr  %BF equation = -19.207 + [0.697 x Sum3skf + 0.090 x height in cm]; when sum3skf >50 mm %BF equation = 47.121 + [0.214 x Sum3skf - 0.155 x height in cm]. For female aged 10-18 yr when sum3skf < 50 mm %BF equation = - 5.077 + [0.432 x Sum3skf + 1.169 x BMI] – 0.130 x weight in kg]; and when sum3skf >50 mm %BF equation = 5.086 + [0.311 x Sum3skf + 0.596 x BMI]. Thirdly the 4 compartment model demonstrated that the UWW provided the comparable result compared to 4C  R2 =0.92 and 0.87 in male and female respectively whereas the DEXA was found to be acceptable for male and not for female. Some correction was made to adjust for the systematic bias hence the information was transformed from DEXA to 4C. This developed equations for male and female were constructed and used for the development of BMI for age. Fourthly the waist circumference at all sites correlate with percent body fat and total body fat mass at  R2 = 0.51 and 0.83 in male and R2 = 0.86 and 0.84 in female respectively. Lastly the percentage of body fat which correspond with various BMI for ages reference classification was developed for designing the proper overnutritional surveillance index of Thai children. Conclusion: This research study provided the validity and reliability nutrition tools for the PAQ the equation for body fat assessment and BMI for age to be used in Thai children aged 10-18 years.
This research studied the effect of sludge water from ready-mixed concrete plant replacing mixing water in concrete containing admixtures. The admixtures used in this study were pozzolan and chemical admixture. The experimental procedures were performed to study the characteristic of sludge water as concrete mixing water and to determine the optimal total solids content of sludge water in cement paste by varying the percentage of total solids content in sludge water between 0.5% 2.5% 5% 7.5% 10% 12.5% and 15%. The sludge water was taken from 3 plants namely Italian-Thai industry complex of Italian-Thai PCL Asia Concrete Products Co. Ltd. and Siam City Cement Concrete Co. Ltd. subsidiary company of Siam City Cement PCL.The test results showed that chemical properties of sludge water from 3 plants passed the requirement of ASTM C94. Chemical compositions of sludge power were similar to that of fly ash but sludge powder has more loss of ignition value. Sludge powder consisting of hydration products has a rugged surface porous and weak bonding. The average size of sludge powder was bigger than cement type I powder. Total solids content of sludge water found in the range of 52700-61300 mgl. for the criteria of ASTM C94 has an influence on the compressive strength and setting time of cement paste.Using sludge water as concrete mixing water effects the workability of concrete resulting in requiring more water in mix proportion decreasing unit weight of concrete and air content in fresh concrete accelerating the setting time reducing the mechanical properties of concrete more shrinkage and reducing chemical durability of concrete. Dosage of chemical admixture recommended by the manufacture was affected by sludge water resulting in failing the criteria of ASTM C494. Testing results showed that concrete using sludge water with admixture has better characteristics than concrete using only sludge water. The specimen mixing with sludge water has more porosity than control specimen in range of 1.5% - 4%. The porosity testing by ASTM C642 method gives lower value compared with Mercury Intrusion Porosimeter MIP method by 2% for control specimen and by the range of 1% - 5% for the specimen mixing with sludge water.
The stethoscope is simply a device that carries sound energy from the chestof the patient to the ear of the physician via a column of air. The heart sounds is notthe pure heart sound but it include other noises such as cardiac murmur and externalnoise. These noises cause a lot of problems in heart sound detection. This paperpresents a method to analysis the heart sounds from the computer graphics display. Inthis method the heart sounds signal from a PZT Lead Zircronate Titanate or Electrettransducer is passed through a 800-1000 Hz active low-pass filter the output signal isthen amplified and passed through a analog to digital converter circuit to convertfrom analog into digital signal. The digital signal is then used as the computer data tobe displayed in the form of a graphic spectrum of the heart sounds signal. The data ofeach patient can be saved in the computer hard disk or sending via electronic mail tothe physician for later analysis.
In 1993 the central government had allocated funding and assigned the responsibility to the Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund to build the Rubber Plantation Aid Fund Co-operation plants RCOPs each has a capacity to produce 2 tons of smoked rubber sheets per day. The initiation of these plants aimed to encourage local rubber farmers to form a co-operative group which would help increase production efficiency and improve bargaining position with the rubber traders. However in the past years there have been many RCOPs suffering from loss in profit that pushed them out of business. The major reasons are inefficient management production planning and control quality control and analysis and control of production costs. By employing benchmarking technique this study is aiming to improve the efficiency of production resource management of the RCOPs which will increase productivity and profit as well as reduce impact to the environment from their production activities. In the first phase resource utilization indicators were formulated and data from the previous year 2003 of all 76 RCOPs in Songkhla province were analyzed according to such set indicators. Twenty three RCOPs with good overall performance in each indicator were selected followed by the detailed field data collection. Specific techniques and good practices from each RCOPs were gathered and analyzed for success factors. In the second phase the good techniques and practices found were applied to the volunteered RCOPs. These RCOPs then participated in the planning of plant improvement and implementation. Data before and after the implementation were gathered for comparison. The average efficiencies of the indicators from the selected well-performed RCOPs are rubber purchasing = 0.97 kgkgproduct rubber water utilization 8.4 L kgproduct rubber acid utilization = 4.74 g kgproduct rubber electricity utilization = 3.62 satangs kgproduct rubber fuel utilization = 0.82 satang kgproduct rubber firewood utilization = 1.30 kg kgproduct rubber 1994 model RCOPs and = 0.71 kg kgproduct rubber 1995 model RCOPs. For the production efficiency it was found as follows: rubber production efficiency = 99.37% bubbled rubber = 0.16% cutting rubber = 0.30% and wasted rubber = 0.28%. The average production costs excluding latex cost of the good RCOPs is 4.19 bahtkgproduct rubber while the average labor cost and salary are 1.86 and 0.21 bahtkgproduct rubber respectively. In the second phase good practices were applied to the volunteered RCOPs. The indicators that have an obvious impact on the environment and saving are water and firewood utilizations. In 2 RCOPs after initiating water use reduction measures could cut down water utilization on average from 10.52 and 14.43 L kgproduct rubber to 7.69 and 11.04 L kgproduct rubber which are equivalent to 26.90% and 23.49% reduction respectively. For easy and minor reconditionings of the firewood loading stove and smoking room ceiling in 4 RCOPs substantial reduction in firewood utilization had decreased from 1.01 1.23 1.06 and 0.76 kg kgproduct rubber to 0.83 0.97 0.83 and 0.57 kg kgproduct rubber which are equivalent to 18.32% 20.88% 21.81% and 24.24% respectively. This firewood reduction could save approximately up to 146434 bahtyear in a RCOP. If more of the found good practices are implemented in a RCOP more savings should be realized. If the responsible agencies could organize the periodical update and improvement as well as the proper and continuous promotion of the good practices it will lead to the best practices of smoked rubber sheet production in the present and to be guilt RCOPs in the future. Keywords : benchmarking; Rubber Plantation Aid Fund Co-operation plants; smoked rubber sheet; good practice
The rubber cup is necessary for rubber plantation. At the present the rubber cups are made by plastics or ceramics but rubber cup from ceramics are heavy and expensive. Low cost rubber cup were developed by process of mixture of cassava starch and filler kaolin or calcium carbonate and binder natural rubber latex or natural rubber mixture of polyvinyl alcohol. It found that filler level in the range of 20 40 60 80 and 100 % by weight of dry starch and pours binder level in the range of 10 20 30 and 40% by weight of mixture starch and filler. Regarding blending of cassava starch with filler could be dispersed in gelatinized starch by water at temperature of 800C. The mixture of cassava starch and binder blends had been carried out by compression molding at 190 and 2000C. The product was tested physical and mechanical properties such as percent shrinkage percent water absorption compression strength hardness and weight of product in order to comparison property of product. It was found that calcium carbonate was not suitable to rubber cup processing due to product was broken and not stability. It was found that properties of product by compression molding among 1900C and 2000C were no significantly different but low water resistance. Suitable binder ratio between natural rubber latex blends with polyvinyl alcohol was natural rubber latex at 50% by weight of polyvinyl alcohol. The compressive strength and bending strength of product obtain increased with increasing filler and binder. The maximum strength of product obtained filler 80% by weight of starch and binder 30% by weight of mixture starch and kaolin. Coating product by lacquer helped increase water resistance properties of rubber cup.
The aim of this research is to create a prototype of the device for plucking the rubber seedlings. The device accompanying with human force is used in order to succeed in pulling the seedlings with complete seeds that are to be transplanted in budding stocks and in the nursery. The part of the device is made from stainless steel Grade304 and the body consists of 3 components: the structured column the pulling mechanism and the clamp with double cam gears. The jaws are fixed with the sling. All the parts are set on the column with a base and metal bar penetrating on the ground. Moreover there is a movable roller attached for convenient movement. The mechanism works by pulling the lever manually. The ratio of pulling mechanism by one labor force and the link mechanism advantage is 1:2.32. The result of the experiment reveals that the maximum pulling force is 140 -190 kilograms force and sliding
Two methods for determination of silver content in silverware were studied viz. chemicaland physical methods. In chemical method the metals were dissolved in nitric acid solution andadjusted pH to be in the range of 6.8-7.2 by sodium hydroxide solution. Consequently a complexwith blue colour was formed between silver ion 110-phenanthroline and bromopyrogallol red inpresence of EDTA and ammonium acetate. The result revealed that observation by human eyescan distinguish the colour of the complex solution when a difference in silver content is 20 wt%.Impurities can also be qualitatively identified from the colour of the metal solution after dissolving innitric acid solution from pH range at which precipitation occurred and also from the colour ofprecipitates during pH adjustment by sodium hydroxide solution. For physical method specificgravity of the alloy can be calculated from their weights measured in air and in water. This methodcan be used in compliment with the chemical method to determine the silver content ot 10 wt%difference. A test kid was hence successfully developed based on both methods.

The design and invention of Compression MoldingCurrently various applications of rubber products have been widely found. Rubberprocessing can be produced in various forms particularly in cars motorcycle and agriculturalmachinery accessories. Generally Para-rubber is exported abroad in tender price but importedback in valuable price in forms of rubber production. This is because farmers could not process arubber product. They could neither afford to purchase a very expensive huge compressionmolding machine nor install high voltage electrical wiring 380 volt for machine consumption.The farmers rubber production method is man-made which results in degraded and non-standardproducts compare to factory-made. In this research the design and invention of the compressionmolding was proposed to response to the needs of local rubber product processing. It wasdesigned according to the local farmers maximum need and also to operate with traditional daily– use voltage system 220 volt Hydraulic compression control has been added in the design inorder to compress up to 5000 kilograms Compression Molding and Compressing time wereoperated and controlled manually according to kinds of product or materials used. It could be saidthat this invention gear is useful and exploited efficiency in the Para-rubber planting area.
The objective of this research is to find a way to recover and maintain the herbal wisdom of thecommunity despite present influences from the changing culture outside. We have collected the datainformation through the participatory process to recover the villagers knowledge as well as develop thecommunitys local wisdom management. Our research focusing on The herbal wisdom of thecommunity. also helped to create a transfer of knowledge to the new generation.The outcome of the research:1.Community context2.Problem analysisThe villagers use of herbs has gone through a social and culture evolution for many years; it can bedivided into 3 periods which are described below:2.1First settlement period - A strong relationship among the people good adjustment to the surroundingenvironment gained experience with herbal use became aware of the value of self- sufficientsystems.2.2 Period of economic pressure - The system of development due to outside economic pressure did not support the communitys environment and culture.2.2Change in education and medical assistance. The Thai government supplied the community with asmall school and health center within the village.Currently there are 3 categories within the knowledge of  the herbal system.1.The knowledge is passed through word of mouth from generation to generation but only those whoare interested learn about it.2.The villagers develop a strong knowledge of the use of herbs through their own personal use andexperience. By using herbal medicine often they understand its effects and can share theirinformation to outsiders with confidence.3.Knowledge management and the traditional way of passing information orally has not continuedthroughout the entire community. Over time the community has changed so that now there aremany limitations in local wisdom and much of the herbal use has been forgotten. The change inculture and loss in traditional knowledge has also been affected greatly by the villages relocationthroughout the years. At the same time the influences of outside culture have given the villagerssome western medical alternatives that are sometimes more convenient and also more easy tounderstand. This has also contributed to the villagers loss of knowledge as they often replace theuse of herbal medicine with the use of modern medicine.3. The potential of the community analysis and the research process.3.1The knowledge of herbal medicine is divided into many separate parts making it difficult to examineherbal use all together as one group. For this reason the researcher met with each group ofpeople within the community and discussed their knowledge of herbal use and then worked to share with them the knowledge of other groups within the community. Additionally the researcher plannedgroup activities such as walking through the herbal forest together as a way to encourage thesharing of herbal knowledge throughout the community. The researcher hoped that all of thevillagers different pieces of knowledge could be combined in a piece of writing in order to preservethe knowledge.3.2The researcher discovered that the communitys use of herbs is related to their culture and simpleclever and self- sufficient way of life. The Karen people use herbs because of their belief aboutliving in harmony with the forest.3.3The researcher determined that the way to preserve the knowledge of herbal use within thecommunity was by having large group activities involving herbal knowledge which included allmembers of the village. To teach and preserve the knowledge both the school and the big groupactivities would together provide means of education for all villagers. The large activities wouldfunction as a non-traditional out of the classroom venue for teaching and preserving knowledge boththroughout the community and also to others.Conclusion: Analysis of ResultOne of the most important aspects of this research was that the researcher and the members ofthe community shared an understanding of the importance of the preservation of the knowledge ofherbal use. The researcher worked to communicate with all of the different groups of people within thecommunity such as the youth group the village committee the school the elder people and also themiddle aged people. By doing this the researcher was able to collect information and knowledge from allgroups of people and also interest them in the preservation of the knowledge of herbal use. Althoughthe researchers original goal was to re-introduce the use of herbs within the community the communitydid not end up doing this. The research did however cause the villagers to think more about theirtraditional uses of herbs and in this way it was successful in preserving the community knowledge. It isnow up to the community to decide how they are going to preserve the knowledge of herbal use as wellas how they will pass the information on to younger generations. To keep this knowledge within thecommunity is very important as herbal knowledge is a part of the Karen culture and self- sufficient styleof living amongst nature.

The purpose of the study was to eramine cooperation between the community and the school that has deep commiment to health management. Also the study aims to help improve the learning process. The study was workshop research. The research tools included an informal interview observation testing  and a five-rating scale questionnaire. The data collected from observation and interview were analyzed by content Analysis  but the data collected through testing and questionnaire were analyzed by using SPSSPC for Windows Version 9.0 to find out the mean and Standard deviation. The study revealed that 1.The community  within the area of Baan-Pae Toong Charoen School  consisted of 3 Villages : Baan-Pae-Toong charoen Baan Hai-Yoi and Baan-Pae Don-Moon. They had much local wisdom to help teach the students  such as the senior citizen group the house wife group the youth group the professional group the monk group the health volunteer group 78 the hospital staff group and the sublocal administrator group 78. All of them participated in the meeting and helped to determine learning process models. They worked hard in setting up additional courses for professionals. The working plans suited the environment and context. This was designed to create love and mutual understanding among the work forces. They also learned from other groups  which led to better physical mental and emotional feelings among teams. Also  their products were sent out to other communities. 2. The community within the area of Baan-Pae Toong Charoen was selected for its outstanding basic health for Phrae in B.E. 2545. It was an example for other communities to emulate. Also  the community people had been accepted as the best community group of both the province and the nation. This was the result of good behavior for their health community development  and society at the same time. 3. The people in this community especially the research pilot group were public minded. They volunteered to work. At first  they seemed not to be sure of themselves; however later on  they felt secure in themselves and eager to present their จcreative ideas and suggest how to solve community problems. They presented their suggestions at the meeting  both in writing and speaking. Finally  the people who participated in the research project seem satisfied with the work. 4. Baan-Pae Toong Charoen School has been under the health promotion program since B.E. 2543. The cooperative groups included the school committee for health promotion and the committee who took care of basic study on health and educational management. They ranked the order of the serious problems and planed how to solve them. They implemented the plan and evaluated them for further development. This led the school to satisfy the criteria on the process of health promotion. Department Ministry of Health. The following year the school passed the criterion of the 8th educational region for Royal  small size school program-in B.E. 2544. However in B.E. 2545 the school changed to a research project that focussed on Learning for Health promotion  based on the good cooperation between the school and its community people. This cooperation was aimed at habits and professional jobs  based on the good and weak points of the school. This included the opportunities and the problems of the community. They participated and analyzed to find new models for community development. The result of their hard work yielden better health for students and more community people participated in the school program. 5. The students were satisfied with their research projects and appreciated the pilot team group who helped organize the activities. Their average scores were much higher than in the past. They loved their seniors and wished more of the same activities. They learned through various methods and got good ideas from brain storming. They gained benefit s through community wisdom. This followed the educational revolution act. B.E. 2542. The students learned through true local curriculum and they had good physical  mental  and emotional health as well as social skills. 6. The teachers also played active roles in the research team as guides for each working group. The teachers themselves can also get some benefited by application of the learning process from each group to integrate in the classroom teaching. Teachers were able to plan learning for each pilot project staff which could later be implemented into educational curriculum. B.E. 2546 which clearly indicate that at least 30% ฉthe School must offer the curriculum which is compiled through the close co-organization within the community. This will help create a wisdom drive among school administrators to focus on educational and health promotion within their communities. 7. There were some other local organizations participating on the research projects  such as Wang Chin 2nd branch The Wang-Chin Primary School Office Phrae Health Office Phrae Administration Organization Soi- Subdistrict administration Organization and all schools in Soi-Seri Schools  which fully supported our programs. Also  some other organizations that used to visit our health-care program may get some better ideas to improve their school program as a chain project for further sustainable health care development.
The study was aimed to develop pig production with high n-3 unsaturated fatty acidcontent in the body by evaluating the effects of diets sexes and slaughtered weights onproduction performance and carcass quality of growing-finishing pigs. Four hundred and eightycrossbred Large White x Landrace x Duroc pigs averaging 30 kg were assigned to 12 treatments40 pigstreatment in a 2 x 2 x 3 factorial arrangement which including; dietary factor 0 and 2%tuna oil in basal diet; sex factor barrows and gilts; and slaughtered weight factor 90 100 and110 kg. Pigs at the average slaughtered weights were randomly selected to slaughter 8pigstreatment; 96 pigs. For productive performance pigs were received dietary fish oil havetended to better overall productive performance than control group because of lower feed intake.Barrows and pigs at low level of slaughter weight had highest productive performance accordingto high average daily gain and low feed conversion ratio. For the study of lipoprotein profilesfound that pigs in tuna oil group had lower serum cholesterol and triglyceride than control groupbut found no different from sex and slaughter weight factor. For carcass quality dietary factor didnot affected to overall carcass quality but pigs in tuna oil group had little high backfat thicknessthan that of control diet and barrows had more backfat thickness at P2 than gilts. Although pigs athigh level of slaughter weight had high carcass weight dressing percentage and loin eye area aswell as backfat thickness. The study of meat quality although fat percentage and oxidativecapacity of meat from pigs in tuna oil group were higher than that of the control group butcholesterol and triglyceride level tended to be lower. Tenderness of tuna oil group was higherthan control group. In addition fat percentage of barrows was higher than that of gilts. Meat fromthe low level of slaughter weight group had better advantage than high level of slaughter weightin terms of tenderness and juiciness and low oxidative susceptibility. For fat quality fat from tunaoil group and gilt had higher softness than the control group and barrow respectively. Meltingpoint of fat from tuna oil group and gilt were lower than control group and barrow respectively.Moreover the oxidative capacity of fat from tuna oil group were higher than control group whichfat from gilt tended to have higher oxidative capacity than barrow whereas triglyceride levelstended to increase as increasing slaughter weight. For evaluating of fatty acid composition foundthat loin muscle and backfat of swine from tuna oil group had higher omega-3 fatty acid n-3PUFA than control group especially Linolenic acid ALA Eicosapentaenoic acid EPA และDocosahexaenoic acid DHA and had lower n-6 : n-3 PUFA acid ratio than control group. Bothof loin and backfat from gilt had higher PUFA : SFA ratio and tended to have higher n-6 : n-3 PUFA than barrow which loin muscle from 90 kg group had higher PUFA : SFA ratio than thoseof 100 and 110 kg group. Both of loin muscle and backfat of 110 kg group had higher n6:n3 fattyacid ratio than 100 and 90 kg group respectively.For product quality Chinese sausage Vienna sausage and bacon from tuna oil grouphad higher oxidative capacity than control group but found no difference in overall acceptancefrom dietary factor of three products. Furthermore these three products of tuna oil group hadbetter fatty acid profiles than control group which had higher omega-3 PUFA and lower n-6 : n-3ratio whereas product from barrows and pigs at low level of slaughter weight had advantage interms of low oxidative capacity and had good fatty acid profilesTherefore the production of omega-3 pig from swine fed dietary tuna oil 2% can improve fatty acid quality in meat and fat which PUFA : SFA and n-6 : n-3 PUFA were approached to recommendation of healthy human diet. However due to oxidative susceptibility selecting barrow and slaughter weight not more than 100 kg would provide the favorable meat and fat quality. The cost of pig productive will be 160 Baht per head in order to have good meat and fat quality. Forty crossbred pigs Large White x Landrace x Duroc were raised at initial weight at 60 kg and fed with 2% tuna oil and the commercial feeding diet until to 90 100 and 110 kg body weight. This experiment was in 2 x 2 x 3 factorial in CRD which divide into 3 factors as diets sexes and slaughter weight. The results of performance and carcass quality showed that the 2% tuna group had lower average daily feed intake and FCR than control group P<0.001. But the control group had higher the slaughter weight hot carcass weight and chill carcass weight than the tuna group P<0.05. The barrow had higher average daily feed intake total feed intake slaughter weight hot carcass weight chill carcass weight and both of average backfat thickness and backfat thickness at P2 position than the gilt P<0.001. For the slaughter weight at 90 kg hot carcass weight chill carcass weight carcass length loin eye area backfat thickness carcass and lean percentage were less than the other groups P<0.01. The factors of diet had affected on high HDL and low LDL content in serum P<0.05. For meat quality found that the 2% tuna diet had higher pH value at 24 p.m. than control group P<0.05. But the control group had higher color value drip loss grilling loss and sensory evaluation score than 2% tuna P<0.05. The gilt had higher boiling loss than barrow P<0.001. The slaughter weight at 90 kg had higher pH value of LD muscle at 45 min and 24 hours p.m. color value and moisture percentage than the both of slaughter weight at 100 and 110 kg P<0.05. But C14:0 C16:0 and C18:0 of the slaughter weight at 100 kg was highest P<0.001. The result of backfat quality a* b* value and TBA number of 2% tuna oil group were higher than control group P<0.01. But the control group had higher backfat hardness than 2% tuna oil group P<0.001. L* and b* value of slaughter weight at 100 kg were highest P<0.001. But the slaughter weight at 110 kg had high cholesterol and triglyceride content. The content of C15:0 C16:1 C17:0 C17:1 C20:4 n-6 C24:0 EPA and n-3 PUFA in backfat of 2% tuna oil was higher than control group P<0.05. But the content of C17:1 C18:1 n-9 and MUFA in backfat of barrow was higher than the gilt P<0.05.The study of Chinese sausage quality found that the pork from 2% tuna oil group had higher protein percentage than the control group P<0.01. The moisture percentage of the slaughter weight at 90 kg was highest P<0.05. Chinese-style sausage of 2% tuna oil group had higher TBA number C15:0 C16:1 C17:0 C17:1 C18:3 n-6 C18:3 n-3 C24:0 EPA DHA including n-3 and n-6 PUFA than the control group P<0.05. Furthermore the barrow had higher TBA number C18:0 C24:0 and SFA higher than the gilt P<0.01. The slaughter weight at 90 kg had higher cholesterol and unsaturated fatty acid content than both of slaughter weight at 100 and 110 kg P<0.001. Vienna sausage quality found that the pork of the gilt had higher protein percentage C14:0 C16:0 C16:1 C18:0 and PUFA than the barrow as well as the slaughter weight at 90 kg P<0.01. The slaughter weight at 110 kg had high SFA and DHA P<0.05. The factors of diet sexes and slaughter weight had no different of TBA number cholesterol and triglyceride contents P<0.01. Meat and fat of 2% tuna oil group had higher C16:1 C17:0 EPA and DHA than control group P<0.05The result of bacon quality in term of sensory evaluation found that the slaughter weight at 90 kg had highest all of panel score P<0.05. The C14:0 C17:0 C16:1 C17:1 C18:3 n-3 C20:4 n-6 and TBA number of bacon from tuna group had higher than control group P<0.05. Moreover the bacon from gilt had more TBA number and triglyceride content than barrow P<0.001. There was the highest cholesterol and triglyceride content of bacon from slaughter weight at 90 kg P<0.001 and found that the slaughter weight at 110 kg had higher C18:0 C20:0 C18:1 n-9 C20:1 C20:2 and DHA higher than the other groups P<0.05.Therefore it can be concluded that feeding 2% tuna oil in swine diet increased omega-3 fatty acids accumulation without adverse effect on carcass meat and product quality. Moreover it tended to decrease cholesterol and triglyceride levels in blood and pork. Barrow and gilt showed similar result in all aspect. Swine slaughter at 100 kg of body weight gave favorable results in term of carcass quality but found no difference in meat and product quality. The cost of swine production enriched high omega-3 increased 60 Baht per head. The effects of feeding periods of tuna oil TO in swine diets and genders on blood lipids carcass meat and fat quality of 80 Duroc x Large White x Landrace crossbreds randomized from 600 experimental animals which allotted into equal 2 genders barrow and gilt. The experimental regimens were group 1 control group 2 1% TO at 30-100 kg BW group 3 3% TO at 30-60 kg BW and group 4 3% TO at 80-100 kg BW. The experiment was designed as 2 x 4 factorial in CRD Completely Random Design. In term of production performance average daily feed intake ADFI and total feed intake of group 1 2 3 and 4 were quite similar especially at 30 - 80 kg BW. Group 3 and 4 had average daily gain ADG higher than group 1 but feed conversion ratio had no significance. However in term of weight gain and ADG of group 2 were the lowest. But FCR was still not different to the other groups. Barrows had higher ADFI tuna oil intake weight gain and ADG than gilts but FCR was opposite P<0.001The dietary tuna oil feeding pattern and gender did not affect on blood lipidcomponents P>0.05 however triglyceride very low density lipoprotein VLDL as well ascholesterol levels of group 2 and 4 tended to decrease but the effect on LDL was oppositecompared to group 1 and 3 respectively. Dietary tuna oil had no effect on mostly carcass traitsexcept that group 3 4 and 2 had higher backfat depth than group 1. Meat quality was investigatedin LD muscle in term of color and pH value of group 4 had the highest lightness L* rednessa* values and pH at 24 p.m. Moisture percentage of group 1 was higher than the other groupswhile LD of group 3 had the highest fat percentage. Furthermore thawing loss percentage ofgroup 1 and 3 was higher than group 4 and 2 respectively which affected on the lower juicinessscore in sensory evaluation of group 1 and 3. LD of group 4 had the highest TBA numberhowever that of group 1 was higher than group 2 and 3 respectively P<0.001. The fatty acid interm of omega-6 n-6 and total polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFA of group 1 were higher thanthose of group 2 and 4. In contrast omega-3 fatty acids n-3 PUFA of group 2 and 4 was higherand gave the result of lower n-6 : n-3 PUFA than group 3 and 1 respectively P<0.001.Cholesterol content had no significance but triglyceride content was similar to the result of fatpercentage. Barrows had more P2 backfat depth than gilts but the loin eye area and lean percentagevalues were opposite P<0.05. However genders had no effect on mostly meat quality traitsexcept barrows had higher fat percentage and saturated fatty acids SFA than those of gilts butPUFA and total unsaturated fatty acids were opposite P<0.001. The backfat quality was shownthat group 3 had whiter backfat than the other groups because of higher L* value. Backfat ofgroup 1 had the highest yellowness b* value. In term of melting point and TBA numbers were not significant but group 4 tended to oxidize rapidly than the others. There was no effect ofgender on mostly fat quality traits. The effect of feeding periods of dietary tuna oil and genders onfatty acid composition of backfat found the same as loin resulted.The product quality of Chinese-style sausage Vienna sausage and bacon had the sametrend on the both effect of dietary tuna oil feeding pattern and gender. Group 3 had the highest fatpercentage and triglyceride content but moisture percentage was opposite P<0.01. Group 2 and4 had higher value than the others the in term of TBA number. Moreover Chinese-style sausagehad the highest TBA number. Cholesterol content of all products of dietary tuna oil groups waslower than control group P<0.01. However there were no significance on evaluation test of allproducts P>0.05. The effects of feeding pattern of dietary tuna oil and gender on fatty acidprofile gave the same result in LD muscle and backfat.The use of high level 3% tuna oil in swine diets at the end of fattening period80-100 kg and low level 1% tuna oil in continuous fattening period 30-100 kg gave the samefavorable result in producing n-3 PUFA enriched pork. However feeding at the end of fatteningperiod was more practical management including with barrow grew faster and the meat and fatquality were similar as gilt. This can be concluded that feeding barrows with 3% tuna oil in dietsat 80-100 kg was the suitable pattern for producing omega-3 meat and product. The cost of pigproduction was 64 Baht per head in order to achieve this goal.
Pruning longan tree by cutting the central part of the canopy off which will induce the new branches aims to reduce the cost of longan production and to ease the harvesting and plant protection due to lower level of plant height. The study includes the level of plant height that should be pruned effect of the prunning on flower induction by using KClO3 methods to control plant height for following year method to induced new branches seasonal effect on pruning tree conditions suited for pruning and canopy control of closed planting system by tip cutting. The results showed that height control of the longan tree by pruning technique reduce cost up to 25 –52 %. If the tree height is too low after pruning it might caused lower yield but fruit quality is better and the net income is higher than controlled plant. There was no effect of pruning on flower induction by using of KClO3 except for lowest rate of application 4 gm2 which reduced flowering percentage of the new branches. Pruning technique by leaving the 10 centimeters of the old stalk resulted in higher flushing rate than no leaving the old stalk. There was no effect of leave number on the old stalk after cutting on flushing rate. Pruning of the healthy trees flushed better than non-healthy ones. Pruning in rainy season helped to shorten time of new flushing and reduced problem on bark cracking. The control of canopy by tip cutting technique showed that cutting from tip longer than 30 centimeters resulted in reduction of flowering especially for higher than 45 centimeters resulted in lower yield of longan.
Developing shelf life indicator SLI to evaluated quality and shelf life lost in commercial scale of vegetables: baby corn and asparagus fresh cut which were packed in polyethylene tray wrapped with polyvinyl chloride film 20 micron thickness and fruits: durain cv. Mhontong mango cv. Namdokmai pomelo cv. Thongdee and Kawnampueng and pineapple cv. Tradsithong were packed in polyethylene tray and wrapped with polyvinyl chloride film 20 micron thickness and oxygen transmission rate OTR about 7200 ccm2day at atm. and P-plusTM 60 micron thickness and OTR about 22500 ccm2day at atm. The packages were storaged at 10+1 and 28+1 degree Celsius. The SLI which were prepared from Bromthymal Blue concentration 0.01 gl Methel Red concentration 0.003 gl and variable of NaHCO3 1.5 2.0 3.0 5.0 7.0 10.0 and 20.0 mmoll packed in polypropylene PP sachets 40 micron thickness and OTR about 5636 mlm2.day at atm.. The indicator sachets were packed in round clamshell which was designed for commercial packaging. It was found that baby corn and asparagus were respond with indicators which NaHCO3 were 3 and 2 mmoll respectively. While durain cv. Mhontong mango cv. Namdokmai pomelo cv. Thongdee and Kawnampueng and pineapple cv. Tradsithong were respond with indicators which NaHCO3 were 5.0 3.0 2.0 2.0 and 2.0 mmoll respectively. 
Diseases and parasite isolation in Mekong giant catfish Pangasianodon gigasChevey hatchery was conducted. Total number of 90 fries of giant catfish were investigated and 100% were found to be infected with bacteria and fungi. Three genera of fungi were isolated including Saprolegnia sp. Aphanomyces sp. and the vesicle producing fungi. Four species of bacteria were isolated including Aeromonas hydrophila Ochrobactrum anthropi Pasteurella haemolytica and Plesiomonas shigelloides. A. hydrophila was found in highest number. Source of this bacteria was water and live feed because in water supply and Live feed for fry including water flea and brine shrimp also contained high number of bacteria which was dominated by A. hydrophila.In Mekong giant catfish pond age 1 month-1 year total number of 60 fishes were investigated and 100% were found to be infected with parasites and bacteria. Seven parasites were found including Trichodina sp.1 Trichodina sp.2 Trichodinasp.3 Oodinium sp. Ichthyophthirius multifilis Pleistophora sp. and glochidia stage of Pilsbryoconcha exillis compressa. Eight genera of bacteria were isolated including A. hydrophila P. shigelloides P. haemolytica Vibrio cholerae Serratia odorifera Acinetobacter baumannii Chromobacterium violaceum and Erwinia spp. A. hydrophilawas found in highest number.To control these bacteria 4 bath treatment trials with Mekong giant catfish using formalin hydrogen peroxide povidone iodine and potassium permanganate were conducted. Formalin hydrogen peroxide povidone iodine and potassium permanganate were effective removing all bacteria with MIC 31.25 15.63-31.25 3.91-7.81 and 3.91-7.81 ppm respectively. 3.91-7.81 ppm. These MIC value were safety for young giane catfish. Acute toxicity of formalin hydrogen peroxide povidone iodine and potassium permanganate to the hybrid of P. gigas larva were tested by using static viiibioassay. The 96-hour LC50 of formalin hydrogen peroxide povidone iodine and potassium permanganate were 90 33.5 21 and 12.5 ppm respectively.Study on parasite of Mekong giant catfish in 3 habitats Mekong river Kwant phayao and fisherman pond found different species of parasite. Mekong giant catfish from Mekong river found 1 external parasite Alitropus typus at skin and gill chamber. Two new species Prosorhynchoides siamensis n. sp. and P. chiangkhongensis n. sp. were found in the intestine. No parasite found in Mekong giant catfish from Kwant phayao. The results from this studies indicated that species of parasite in Mekong giant catfish depend on the environment especially specific intermediate host such as mollusc in water. Trichodina sp.4 and glochidia stage of bivalue mollusc were found in Mekong giant catfish in pond. These two species could found in general fish pond. Farm management system by sterilize supply water and use sieve before release water in pond were recommended for Mekong giant catfish culture. Specificity of parasite in Mekong giant catfish compared with other fishes were studied. Four families of fishes namely Pangasiidae Bagridae Siluridae and Sisoridae 871 fishes were investigated. The results showed that parasites found in Mekong giant catfish were specific and not found in other fishes in same family and other family. The results obtained from this study suggested that possibilities for parasitic infection between Mekong giant catfish and other fish were low. Management of Mekong giant catfish resource by release young Mekong giant catfish was no effect to ecology change by parasite and this was the suitable way to protect Mekong giant catfish from become extinct in the future.
Development of the integrated seaweed cultivation under a semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system was designed as a model to improve an efficiency of Gracilaria production and its quality. The integrated culture system was emphasized on a balanced management of environmental factors in the culture system and using fish effluents seawater for growing the seaweed. The semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system consisted of four parts: 1 seawater reservoir tank 2 sea bass culture tank 3 treatment seawater tank with green seaweed and 4 Gracilaria culture tank. This study growth and stocking density of the agarophyte under semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system were done in 1-ton outdoor cement tank. Plants of G. fisheri at different densities of 500 1000 and 1500 g wet wt.m2 were cultured in ambient seawater as control and in fish effluent from white sea bass culture tanks at density of 5 fishesm2 and density of 10 fishesm2. G. fisheri showed the highest growth when cultured at density ratio of 5 fish per 500 g wet wt.m2. The cultivar obtained higher values of protein content than those cultured in ambient seawater. Other experiments were conducted under semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system in 5-tons outdoor cement tanks. Plants of G. edulis at different densities of 1817 g wet wt. m2 and 3634 g wet wt. m2 were cultured from September 2004 to February 2005. G. edulis obtained the highest production of 6260 g wet wt. m2 when cultured at density of 3634 g wet wt. m2 while those cultured at density of 1817 g wet wt. m2 showed the highest production of 3140 g wet wt. m2. Plants cultured at density of 1817 g wet wt. m2 gave higher growth rate than those cultured at density of 3634 g wet wt. m2. A comparison growth of G. edulis and G. fisheri was also done in xi the culture tank system from April to October 2005. Higher production was obtained from G. edulis 5630 g wet wt.  m2 while G. fisheri showed the highest value of 2100 g wet wt.  m2. Growth of the agarophyte was also determined under semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system in earthen ponds. G. fisheri was cultured using mono line and scattering methods from March to May 2004. After one month of cultivation the mono line culture of G. fisheri showed growth rate value of 1.04 ± 0.84 % per day but growth rate was decreased and all died in the month onwards. After ward plants of G. edulis were substituted G. fisheri for culture in the earthen pond. However they could not grow well due to high salinity alkalinity and hardness of the seawater and then thalli were all dead. As the result production of the agarophytes obtained from outdoor 1-ton and 5-tons tanks showed the proximate composition with low lipid content while obtained high content of protein. In addition high agar yield of 44.1 % was obtained from G. edulis. Our study indicated that under a semi-enclosedcontrolled culture system could enhance the production with qualified algal material in outdoor culture tank but not in earthen pond at present. 
Management Information Systems MIS is information that is gathered from several data sources and being processed with data integration cleaning and analysis. An MIS is used for information analysis and management and for decision making purpose. The MIS can be represented in several formats such as summarized data images and graphs. In the case of data contains geographical references it can be represented using map representation called Geographical Information Systems GIS.The aim of this research is the study of information systems development ofagriculturist information which was originally the project plan proposed by the Department ofAgricultural Extension Ministry of Agriculture. The purpose of this project is to collectinformation from the agriculturists in 17 provinces in the northern region of Thailand. Thegathered data flows from bottom to top level starting from amphurs to provinces and finallysummarized into region as one large database. The information stored in the databasecontains data that is collected from each individual agriculturist that being treated astransactional data and later is transformed into the MIS database. The MIS database wasdesigned using dimensional modeling technique which was a concept of the data warehousedesign. The On-Line Analytical Processing OLAP tool was therefore used to produce theMIS views as a result of reports from different dimensions through the process of drilled-downand rolled-up.
Two experiments were conducted to study the effects of powdered Andrographis paniculata Wallex Nees and curcuminoid supplementation in broilers. In experimental I two thousands 1-d oldbroilers were used to study the properties of powdered A. paniculata and curcuminoid such asanti-stress antioxidant and growth promoter. Broilers were devided into eight groups with 5replications. Each replicate consisted of 50 broilers with equal female and male. The animals wererandomed to receive experimental diets as following: control diet group 1 control dietsupplemented with 5 ppm flavomycin group 2 0.5 0.75 and 1.0 % of powdered A. paniculatagroup 3-5 50 100 and 150 ppm curcuminoid group 6-8 respectively. Growth performance รายงานฉบับสมบูรณ์ การใช้สมุนไพรฟ้าทะลายโจรและสารเคอร์คูมินอยด์จากขมิ้นชันในไก่เนื้อ2carcass quality white blood cell count as well as lipid peroxidation were measured. Clinicalenzymatic detection as well as the histopathology of liver tissue were also investigated for thedetection of the herbal toxicity. Supplementation with A. paniculata and curcuminoid were notsignificantly improved the growth performance of broilers comparing with antibiotic and controlgroups but curcuminoid supplementation trend to have the same growth rate and feed conversionratio as flavomycin espectially in the first 3 week of age. Additionally curcuminoidsupplementation decreased the stress of broiler in term of reducing the heterophilllymphocyteH: L ratio and also showed the good antioxidant property by reduction of the lipid peroxidationin serum. Supplementation with curcuminoid less than 100 ppm showed the positive effect on theheight of villi in the first week of age whereas the long feeding period with A. paniculata andcurcuminoid affected the jejunal tissue and the height of villi. Carcass quality was notsignificantly effected by the herbal supplementation.One hundred and ninety two 1-d old broilers were used in experiment II to study the utilization ofprotein and energy the duodenal enzymes such as lipase amylase and proteases activities.Animals were divided into eight groups with four replicates and six animals per each. The animalswere fed the same experimental diets as used in experiment I. Duodenal digesta and the excretawere collected during the 3rdand 7thweeks of age. The utilization of protein and energy could beimproved by supplementation of A. paniculata and curcuminoid by the significantly increasing ofthe duodenal lipase activity in both collection periods.
Development of Soil and Fertilizer Knowledge Base for Structuring an Expert System in Papaya Production was to research and develop knowledge about soil management and fertilizer for growth yield and quality of papaya aim at high efficiency in the Northeast environment can be summarized as followed: 1. Information base derived from interview some experts and scientific papers can be group into 23 topics or 106 subtopics for the total of 594 titles. 2. Information from field survey and soil analysis in laboratory together with semi-structured interview composed of: 2.1 General condition for growing papaya Farmers like to grow KagNul variety 56.6 %. Soil are loamy or sandy loam followed by clay loam or clayey soil and sandy soil for 54.7 34.0 and 11.3 % respectively. For the success of papaya growing farmers prefer to use chemical fertilizer especially grade 15-15-15 16-16-8 and 13-13-21 at the rate of 40-50 kgrai by apply 1-2 times for one month. In sandy loam or coarse textured soil farmers add some boron as borate compound 1 kg for each 40-50 kg of chemical fertilizer by mixing them together then broadcast around plant and then water. Organic fertilizer was chicken manure mixed with rice husk at 4-10 kgplant. Plant spacing was normally at 2x2 meters with lifted bed. Sprinkler was generally used for the big planting area with no plastic mulching accounted for 98.2 % of the total number surveyed. Average fruit yield was 2-3 tonraiharvest and the highest yield was 5-6 tonraiharvest. 2.2 Chemical analysis of soil in the low yield sandy areayield lower than 3 fruitsplant for pH EC OM N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe Mn and Zn were 4.40 0.021 mScm 0.50 % 0.03 % 7.0 mgkg 37 mgkg 1338 mgkg 38 mgkg 0.69 mgkg 0.03 mgkg 2.21 mgkg 11.3 mgkg 8.9 mgkg 1.48 mgkg respectively. While the more productive areayield more than 10 fruitsplant soil analysis for the respective parameter were 6.25 0.410 mScm 2.31 % 0.09 % 156 mgkg 252 mgkg 8363 mgkg 306 mgkg 8.7 mgkg 0.48 mgkg 2.8 mgkg 122 mgkg 131 mgkg and 14.2 mgkg respectively. XV2.3 Plant nutrients in leaf petiole for 1 sandy soil and not healthy plant for N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe Mn and Zn were 0.68 % 0.16 % 0.38 % 0.4 % 0.42 % 0.09 % 12.29 mgkg 7.9 mgkg 16 mgkg 55.6 mgkg and 9.2 mgkg respectively. While nutrients in the more healthy plant were 1.52 % 0.39 % 3.49 % 3.92 % 0.79 % 0.75 % 30.92 mgkg 17.1 mgkg 193 mgkg 184.4 mgkg and 20.9 mgkg respectively. 2 For 1-2 year old plant the concentration of nutrients in leaf petiole for N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe Mn and Zn were 0.59 % 0.10 % 0.38 % 0.40 % 0.22 % 0.08 % 11.02 mgkg 4.6 mgkg 16 mgkg 35.5 mgkg and 8.1 mgkg respectively. While the maximum nutrient concentration in healthy plant leaf petiole were 2.08 % 0.62 % 4.33 % 6.51 % 1.12 % 0.83 % 53.02 mgkg 20.7 mgkg 200 mgkg 264 mgkg and 40 mgkg respectively. 3 Nutrient concentration in leaf petiole of Kag Nuel were closed to local Koko Kag Dum Tapra Yuang Kao and Dum Nuon varieties and the analysis for N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe Mn and Zn were 1.2 % 0.31 % 2.44 % 2.34 % 0.75 % 0.37 % 22.17mgkg 14.97 mgkg 93.2 mgkg 125 mgkg and 21 mgkg respectively. 2.4 Chemical property and nutrients in the leaf petiole for younger than 1 year old plant with low rate of fertilizer had the average nutrient in petiole for N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe Mn and Zn were 1.29 % 0.43 % 1.68 % 2.28 % 1.14 % 0.45 % 42.63 mgkg 20 mgkg 71.5 mgkg 149 mgkg and 23.8 mgkg respectively while the higher rates of fertilizer had the analysis of 0.92 % 0.27 % 3.09 % 3.32 % 0.66 % 0.4 % 30.43 mgkg 7.88 mgkg 99.69 mgkg 93.32 mgkg and 21.14 mgkg respectively. 2.5 Different kinds of management such as sprinkler for 1-2 years old plant and the analysis for pH EC OM N P K Ca Mg S B Cu Fe and Mn Zn were 5.12 0.11 mScm 1.75 % 0.07 % 110 mgkg 200 mgkg 5812 mgkg 169 mgkg 7.51 mgkg 0.58 mgkg 3.16 mgkg 5 mgkg 67 mgkg and 4.5 mgkg respectively while sprinklering water with trap hole the analysis were 4.8 0.18 mScm 1.13 % 0.06 % 102 mgkg 204 mgkg 2670 mgkg 100 mgkg 6.24 mgkg 0.46 mgkg 3.22 mgkg 94 mgkg 72 mgkg and 2.7 mgkg respectively. 3. Information from field experiment and farmer fields composed of : 3.1 The application of plant nutrient on sandy soil loamy soil and clayey soil it was found that addition of trace element were essential only for irrigated field in raining season while irrigation for all growing season the application of secondary elements had more effect than trace elements. The complete nutrients were necessary to improve yield on 3 groups of soils. The application of high rate manure could increase yield upto 482 % from control while the application of primary secondary XVItrace elements and complete nutrients gave yield increase upto 979 % 4112 % 123 % and 1095 % respectively. The fruit qualityvitamin C Sweetness as well as yield varied according to compost or primary or complete nutrients. 3.2 Experiment on different plant nutrient formula as basal fertilizer in different soil textures. Fertilizer grade 13-13-21 as basal application had more effect than 15-15-15 and 8-24-24. KagNul variety fruit weight could increase 1.36 % and 21.19 % respectively. Fertilizer rate of 0 100 200 400 and 800 gplant gave statistically different in yield with the average of 751 1943 2396 3152 and 3958 kgraiharvest respectively. Fertilizer grade 13-13-21 16-16-8 and 15-15-15 apply every month in sandy loamy and clayey soils for 5 months gave no statistically different on plant stem and root weight of Kag Nul variety but there was a better trend for 15-15-15 than 13-13-21 and 16-16-8 in every soil for vegetation and root growths. It could be concluded that fertilizer grade 15-15-15 was best for papaya growth before flowering and 13-13-21 was best after flowering period. 3.3 Experiment on soil amendment with chemical fertilizer revealed that for Kag Nul basal application of manure gave better yield than dolomite phosphate rock pumice and pumic sulfate by the number 42.39 18.64 52.56 และ 60.18 % respectively. Manure basal application at 3 6 and 12 gplant gave the average yield of 3712 3712 and 3806 kgraiharvest respectively. The medium rates of dolomite rock phosphate pumice and pumice sulfate gave better trend for yield than the lower and higher rates. Application of dolomite manure as basal application gave a better trend for vitamin C sweetness electrical conductivity of raw fruit than application of phosphate rock pumice and pumice sulfate which brought to increase in fruit quality especially on crunchy and taste.
Increasing Number of Clutches in Native Hens and Decreasing Mortality ofNative ChicksOnanong Leotaragul Chatri Prathum and Amnuay LeotaragulAbstractThe study of effect of raising native chickens by farmers in the local village asraising inside and outside the village; raising dams 5 – 8 and 9 – 12 hens; separationone fourteen day old chick from dam and natural raising. Characters of this studieswere body weight and number of days from start laying to hatched; number of eggschicks and hatchability; mortality and losses percentage of chicks from birth to 12 weeksof age; number of eating selling chickens and economic return of different raising. Theresults showed that effect of raising inside and outside the village in every characters ofthe study were not significantly differentP>0.05.Raising dams 5 – 8 and 9 – 12 hens did not effectP>0.05 for body weight fromstart laying to hatched number of days from start laying to hatched number of clutchesnumber of eggs number of chicks and hatchability; mortality and losses percentage;number of eating chickens and economic return. But number of selling chickensincome and expenditure of raising dams 9 – 12 hens were higherP<0.05 than raisingdam 5 – 8 hens.Number of days from start hatching to hatchedrange 20.54 – 20.69 andhatchability of separation chicks from dam and natural raising did not differP>0.05.Separation one day old chicks from dam had body weight from start laying to hatchednumber of days from start laying to start hatching and start laying to hatched number ofclutches number of eggs and number of chicks higherP>0.05 than another two groups.Number of clutches eggs and chicks were higher than about 1.2 – 1.4 clutches 19.9 –22.0 eggs and 14.8 – 16.4 chicks respectively. For separation fourteen days old chicksfrom dams and natural raising were not differP>0.05. Losses percentage of chicksfrom natural raising was highest5.54 % followed in order by separating chick fromdam at 14 days2.72 % and 1 day respectively. Separation chick from dam at 14 dayshad higherP<0.05 mortality rate than natural raising and separating chick at 1 day the result were 7.51 4.65 and 2.39 percentage respectively. For economic return did notdiffer between three groups of raising but separation chick from dam at 1 day washigherP<0.05 eating and selling chickens income and expenditure than another twogroups. And separation chick at 14 days and natural raising did not significantlydifferentP>0.05.
The development of Good Manufacturing Practice GMPStandards for Milk Collecting Centers.WTO commitment and recent FTA agreement with Australia and New Zealand as well as consumer awareness of and government regulatory concern about safety and quality of food products have made a great impact on management decision of firms and organizations involving in milk business. They all are required to adjust production process and quality control practices in order to obtain desirably qualified products.Milk collecting centers MCCs as a part in raw milk procurement system receive the impact of quality requirement pressure in the forms of rigid buying conditions put on them by processing firms. MCCs collect raw milk from farmers store it at the centers for a period of time and later delivery it in bulk quantity to the processing plants. While raw milk are storing at MCCs it must be kept properly according to Good Manufacturing Practice GMP guideline. In addition the MCCs also function as primary quality control unit for processing firms as they set milk price for farmers based on quality standard suggested by their processing business associates. The role and functions of MCCs in the procurement system for quality raw milk are clearly essential; therefore they should be equally recognized when a policy to improve milk quality standard are discussed generated and promoted.This research was aimed at the development of human resource and supporting tools to help facilitate the promotion and implementation of GMP in MCCs. The research activities included 3 tasks 1 the development of GMP checklist for MCC 2 the enhancement of GMP capability of MCC employees and 3 the benchmark survey of MCCs GMP standard. The research methods employed to accomplish the tasks incorporated the followings: experts brainstorming field visits workshop public hearings and field survey.The research produced 3 outputs. The first output is the GMP checklist. This was a tool which is purposed to be used for GMP evaluation which in turn provides meaningful information for GMP improvement planning. The checklist was divided into 7 sections 24 subsections and 548 check items. The test on its content validity by means of expert opinion was found to be relatively high at 90.88 percent. The second output was the training of 113 MCCs employees to enhance their knowledge and their ability to manipulate and apply the GMP checklist and its manual. The third output was the findings from GMP survey of a sample of 82 MCCs. The average GMP score of the sample was found to be slightly low at only 43.91 percent. The survey result also indicated the strengths and weaknesses of the MCCs regarding their GMP standard. The strengths include building and surrounding area Section 1; machine tools and equipment Section 2; and personal hygiene Section 6.; The weaknesses on the other hand include the management and control of raw milk in receiving area Section 3; equipment cleaning and germs killing Section 4; quality control Section 5; and safety and quality support systems Section 7.The result of this study has led to a set of recommendations for systematic development of GMP of MCCs. These recommendations are characterized by 6 missions. They are 1 the making of GMP of MCC to become law 2 the designation of principal government authorities to be responsible for MCCs 3 the operation of national survey that employs GMP evaluation tool to be developed according to GMP law made in mission 1 4 the development of action plans to improve GMP standard of MCCs at both local or and national levels 5 the management to put all plans into action as well as provide supporting measures to assist the implementation of plans and 6 the management to have an evaluation of all action plans and purposefully utilize its result.In addition to the recommendations one further research topic has been suggested to facilitate the systematic development of GMP of MCCs. It is titled the development of MCC model for GMP implementation. This MCC model will be served as learning and training place for other MCCs in the pursuit of GMP certification.
The fisheries management of Portunus pelagicus blue swimming crab in Sikaodistrict Trang province by study on reviewing the biology stock assessment of blueswimming crab and social-economic of fishermen. The data consisted of randomsampling of catches by using count egg from berried females length-weight and fisheriesof blue swimming crab during July 2003 and June 2004.The ratio between male andfemale was 1.00-1.09. The developed on egg stage 1-4 were 15.122.528.5 and 33.9 %respectively. The females started mature were size of carapace width 7+0.8 cm. andhigh mature in December. The mature females there were seeds 27040-1725179 egg.The estimate of growth parameter of blue swimming crab revealed that theasymptotic length CWα was 16.10 cm. the curvature parameter K was 1.1 year-1 Thetotal mortality coefficient Z was 7.00 year-1 the natural mortality coefficient M 1.62year-1 and the fishing mortality coefficient F 5.38 year-1. The exploitation rate E was0.77. The recruitment of stock blue swimming crab at first capture Lc 2.5-3.0 cm. were4024242 each. The result of stock assessment showed that the maximum sustainableyield MSY was 120.4 tons and the maximum economic yield MEY was 6.4 million bathsand total biomass B was 45.7 tons. The 50 % decreasing level of fishing effort would beadvantageous.The blue swimming crab fisheries in sikao district trang province developed byabandoned of resource and markets demand. The fishermen are worked age loweducation. Fishing gears were trap crab and net crab. Fishing area was different andchange by fishing grounds. The total yields of blue swimming crab 153865 kg. and value8.6 million baths. The most capture was small size. The marketing were started fromcollector to consumer in-out country.Further more fishermen were attitude about reducing of resource and wantconservation the blue swimming crab was high level. For sort term could be fisheriesmanagement by decreasing the cached small size crab and push berried crab comeback natural. For long term could be the study on factor about fishermen and resource forregulation fisheries management on blue swimming crab while keeping the sustainabilityof the stock.
Suitable technology for producing maize yield grown in rice fields during dry season toreplace the second rice crop is still limited. Major problems for maize production are low yield highcost and inappropriate soil water fertilizer management including commercial hybrid. Therefore itis necessary to dissolve these problems. This project was conducted on farm trials in farmerspaddy fields at four districts in Phitsanulok province during December 2002 and June 2005. Theresearch covered site selection socio-economic survey methods of land preparation to reducecost hybrid trial and fertilizer management.A survey on socio-economic factors of farmers found that maize growers were mainly malewith a range of age 41-60 years and finished primary education. Main labor was households. Theyhave experience of growing maize for at least 3-5 years. Their major source of fund was the Bank ofAgriculture and Cooperatives. Maize growers mainly used lowland areas with sandy loam textureunder moderate soil fertility. High yielding single cross maize hybrids from private seed companieswere planted in December. The land was plowed and harrowed. They used a two-row planter andused seed at the rate of 3.5 kgrai without thinning. All maize growers applied chemical fertilizerstwice during the growing season i.e. basal fertilizer 16-20-0 and top dressing with urea. Theyirrigated the crop using natural water source through furrow irrigation method about three timesduring the growing season. Weed insect and disease were not controlled. Ears were harvestedwhen they turned to light yellow color and sold them to local merchants. Problem found from thisstudy was mainly high production cost.Series of field studies were conducted to study the productivity of maize hybrids grown afterrice under the conventional tillage. It was found that the suitable commercial maize hybrids wereDK979 PIO.30Y87 BIG949 NK48 DK959 NK31 KSX4452 CP989 PIO30D55 PIO30N11 CP9774PAC984 and NSX022031. Maize seeds should be planted at 0.70 x 0.20 m spacing with 1 planthill11428 plantsrai. Using urea as a N source at the rate of 20 kg N rai was recommended to beapplied three times i.e. 40% of dosage at planting 35% at 3-4 weeks after planting WAP and theremaining 25% at and 7-8 WAP to improve maize productivity. VIIIThe CERES-Maize under DSSAT Shell was used for N simulation of maize grown after rice. Nrecommendation rates in very low low and medium nitrate soils ranged from 19-26 16-22 and 10-19kgrai with the predicted yield at 1070 kgrai. In addition the CERES-Maize program was used forsimulation of maize grown in irrigated area of Phitsanulok. It could be recommended that maizehybrids namely NK48 and Pacific984 were suitable for the irrigated area when grown in midNovember using 0.75 x 0.20 m spacing with 1 plant hill-1 10666 plantsrai. Using urea as a Nsource ranged from 10 - 22 kg Nrai was also recommended to be applied twice i.e. a half ofdosage at planting time and the remaining at 30 days after planting DAP to improve maizeproductivity. The simulated yields ranged between 1162 to 1190 kgrai.Field studies were conducted to study the productivity of maize hybrids grown after riceunder minimum tillage. It was found that the suitable commercial maize hybrids were PIO.30D55PIO.30Y87 KSX4452 DK959 NK31 CPKKK CP989 NK48 BIG949 DK979 PIO.30N11 PAC 984and NSX022031. Maize seeds were planted with 0.70 x 0.20 m spacing with 1 planthill 11428plantsrai. Using urea as a N source at the rate of 20 kg N rai was recommended to be appliedtwice a 40% of dosage at planting the remaining 60% at 30 DAP to improve maize productivity.Field study was conducted to compare net incomes from growing maize for grain and seedproduction. It was found that both groups of maize grown well during dry season due to adequatewater consumption and fertilizer application. Results indicated that maize for seed produced 2 % ofnet incomes lower than those of producing for grain because its total production cost was 18%greater than one. However maize grower could produce seed in cooperation with private section ascompared to grain production due to the guarantee price of seed production to avoid grain pricefluctuation.The transfer of appropriate integrated technology to farmers through the farmers field schoolwas done to learn. Farmers were trained to practice from step by step in a field test and indemonstration plots until they could do by themselves and could transfer this appropriate technologyto their neighbors. Thirty farmers from 4 districts enrolled to the school where was located at a farmin Muang district Phitsanulok province during dry season. Results showed that all of the farmersachieved the knowledge of the appropriate technology from this farmers field school. Thistechnology was consisted of 4 steps: 1 At planting 2 At cultivating 3 At flowering and 4 Atmaturity. Finally the selected farmers could gain experiences which could transfer the appropriate IXtechnology to others. In the field days 1500 farmers were joined who attended field trip and farmvisit held in four districts at Phitsanulok.In conclusion the integrated crop management technology for maize after the second rice isfurther developed by the project which is composed of the research on yield trials cropmanagement and on-farm trials. The integrated technology provided objective recommendationsand methods use to improve the yields grain quality and profitability of maize growing. Thistechnology increasing a yield cover ten steps: 1 site selection in paddy fields 3-6 months beforeplanting 2 selection of farmer participants at 1-3 months before planting 3 preparation of varietyand production inputs at 3-4 weeks before planting 4 land preparation at 1-2 weeks before planting5 management at planting time 6 management of seedling stage 1-2 weeks after planting WAP 7management of vegetative stage at 3-6 WAP 8 management of flowering stage at 7-8 WAP 9management of grain filling stage at 9-14 WAP 10 management of maturity at 15-16 WAP. Thisintegrated technology had been transferred to farmers by ways of farmer participatory research atvarious farmers fields of Phitsanulok province. Application of the technology recommended theparticipated farmers could produce an average grain yield of 1560 kgrai or 95 % over the otherfarmers yield 800 kgrai. The production costs of the technology was 1.60 bahtkg or 36 % lessthan the farmer practice 2.50 bahtkg.
Chemical fertilizers account for a substantial part of the sugarcane production cost in Thailand. Most of cane growers in Thailand lack of the basic knowledge of fertilizer use. Misapplication of fertilizers increases production cost decreases fertilizer use efficiency and causes environmental impact. The computer programme CaneFert 1.0 is developed to determine the accurate recommendations of N P K based on chemical properties of all soil series used for sugarcane production in Thailand. Series of experiment in the project are : sugarcane soil identification using soil series map field survey to confirm the identification determination of nutrient requirements cane simulation to determine the effects of water and nitrogen using CANEGRO 3.5 economic analysis of chemical fertilizer recommendations and validation trials to confirm the recommendations from CaneFert 1.0. The developed software allows users to be able to locate the sites of their farms by pointing the arrow on the map shown on computer screen. Its location soil series chemical properties N P K requirements and the amounts and methods of chemical fertilizer application are illustrated. This software could be easily used by sugar mills cane growers association government agencies agronomists and extension workers and perhaps by advanced sugarcane growers.
Mud crab samples and fisheries data were collected in Klong Ngao mangrove forest Ranong province during October 2002-September 2004.The classification of mud crabs are described by external morphology base on identification of Keenan et al. 1997 and Discriminant analysis DA. There are four species of mud crabs including Scylla olivacea S. paramamosain S. tranquebarica and S. serrata found in this area.Collapsible trap is the main fishing gear for catch mud crabs in Klong Ngao mangrove forest. The total catch of crab during 2002-2004 was 31-34 tons and catch rate of 0.07 kg.trap with the average size caught was 8.12 for male and 8.26 cm. for female.The results of prediction model Length-based Thompson and bell showed that the mud crab in Klong Ngao mangrove forest is at present exploit close to the maximum sustainable yield MSY and maximum sustainable economic yield MEY. Therefore an increase in fishing effort on crab stock may lead to minor increase on yield and value but will cause tremendous decrease on spawning stock biomass and catch rate which will resulted on higher investment and less income of fishermen. However the reduction of fishing effort by enlarges the mesh size of the trap so that the length at first capture is 8 or 8.5 cm. This recommendation will reduce the declining of spawning stock biomass of mud crab.
The objective of the research project titled Changed of Japan Politics and Foreign Policy and Its Impacts to Thailand was to study various changes in Japan including domestics politics and foreign policies particular policies toward ASEAN which would effect Thailand. Documentary research and indept interview were main methodology applied in this research. From the study it was found out that both Japanese politics and her foreign policies have been changing significantly. While the emergence of two party system is quite promising the old main political frames rules of the country have been challenged hardly and the demand for amendment becomes louder recently. Concerning to Japanese foreign policies it is explicitly seen that Japan has been playing more active role in an international community in particular on the security issues. At the same time a regional economic cooperation with ASEAN has also gotten high priority. Following the Japan-ASEAN Comprehensive Economic Partnership CEP the Japan-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement FTA at both bilateral and multilateral levels have been implemented since 2002. Besides Singapore with which Japan had concluded FTA in 2002 now Japan is in the negotiation process with Thailand and the Philippines. The main objective of this policy is to protect her national economic interests in the region.
The purpose of this research on New Russia and Prospects for Expanded Relations with Thailand is to study about some important aspects as follow 1 the political  governmental  economic and foreign relations conditions of the Soviet Union 2 the policies maneuverings and implementings of the Soviet Unoion under Boris Yelsin and Vladimir Putin 3 the structures and the processes of the decision-makings on politics  government  economy and foreign relations of the Soviet Union 4 the states of Thai-Russian present relations in politics  security  investment  education  science and technology as well as culture and tourism  finally 5 the accessions to the Thai-Russian relations on politics  security  investment  education  science and technology as well as culture and tourism This study is hoped to form a knowledge that how far the Russian Federation under the liberal democratic regime has developed and changed. Also it is hoped for enlarging the accessions to the relations between the two countries in the future. Besides this research is mostly based on information and data from various sources materials in Thai  English and Russian languages. The interview method is also applied. The informants are the persons and representatives from the related offices both in Thailand and Russia. Particularly the interviews are much from the government and private sectors as well as individuals during the administrative periods of Thaksin Shinawat and President Vladimir Putin. The result of this research leads to some important conclusions. 1 The attempt of the President Mikhael Gorbachev to reform the Soviet Union in both politics and economy has been done with an aim to get rid the development of obstacles and inefficiencies and to restore the stability and security of the country. This attempt finally ends with the cataclysm of the year 1991. 2 It is found that the President Boris Yelsin has a very strong intention to reform Russia in every direction. His shock therapy of economic measures is particularly planned for transforming the socialist economy to the western system of liberal capitalism. In doing that he builds relations with the U.S.A. and the Western European countries in hope of assistances. Despite all the problem of prolonging instability he at the end overcomes that hindrance and attains the purpose to find his trusted successor of จpolitical power  Vladimir Putin . President Vladimir Putin does not disappoint Yelsin because he is able to carry on the following task until the country reaches a stability and security. 3 It is also found that the present Russia under Putin is in a high state of political security which provides a good atmosphere of investment. Although in the decision-making process is strongly formed by the governmental style of patronization there are still many possible channels to be usefully approached in a proper feature and a right time. However the new trend of the Putin government is striving to reform in order to lead the country to the goals of progress transparency well-defined arrangement. This brings about a more opened chance for the future investments of both Thai government and private sectors. 4 The Thai-Russian relations have been improved since the time of Gorbachevs Indochinese peace supporting policy which brings around the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia and the cooperation for reestablishing a democratic government. Thereafter Thailand begins to adjust its anti-communist attitudes towards Russia and turns to Russia more and more after the fall of Russian Communism. This concurrence gradually helps bring down the flow of anti-Russian Communist in Thailand and commences the restoration of Thai-Russian relations in all aspects. 5 Some suggestions have been done in this research for the ways to build relations between the two countries in manifold coperations and exchanges. Also the relations are aimed to support develop and solving problems or obstructions of the two countries in the manner of inter-dependent. Russia under Putin needs to enlarge its strategic economy and security for its restoration and superpower including playing a role of world balance to the U.S.A. and the EU. As for Thailand under Thaksin the necessities are to make an allied relations with Russia especially in the fields of security trade investment tourism as well as science and technology Therefore there are much significant rations for the development of the closer relations between Thailand and Russia in the future. Finally the approach of the Thai-Russian relations at present totally shows our people and society a great change in the form of foreign relations and within a new phrase of world development.
On 1 May 2004 the European Unions fifth enlargement extended to 10 countries including 8 Central and Eastern European countries CEECs-8: Czech Republic Estonia Hungary Latvia Lithuania Poland Slovakia and Slovenia and the two countries from the Mediterranean region: Cyprus and Malta. This adds total population of over 100 million and the combined gross domestic product of 457 billion Euros to the former European Union. Additionally the group of 10 new countries are considered the new markets with one of the worlds highest growth rate attracting tremendous influx of foreign direct investments. This would undeniably have impacts on the world economy including Thailand. The research aims to study the impacts of this EU enlargement on Thai economy with a focus on evaluating comparative advantage of Thailand to EU-15 countries and to the new member countries in main exporting industries. This is in order to analyse and anticipate the change in Thai export to European Union after the enlargement which should help Thailand to formulate strategies and make appropriate response to the change that will sustain its competitiveness. The research employs quantitative as well as qualitative assessments of Thailands comparative advantage in selected products relative to trading partners of the former 15 European Unions countries. The selected products are those that comprise the top 20 Thai export to EU-15 both in terms of volume and value and that will very likely be affected by the EU economic policy. Based on these criteria the research studies the trade pattern of Thai export in the following industries – fishery and poultry products footwear cassava rubber electronics and electric appliances jewelry motor vehicles and textiles and clothing. The basic comparative studies between Thailand and former EU members using Revealed Comparative Advantage RCA Index and Comparative Export Performance CEP Index reveal that Thailand continues to have comparative advantage over the considered sectors with trading partners. This is because commodities exported from Thailand and those produced by the new members are mostly in different categories and Thai products are supplied at lower prices. However in comparison with the 10 new member states Thailand has potential disadvantage in some categories under the textiles and clothing motor vehicles and electric and electronic sectors; with complete enlargement and total elimination of tariffs between EU-15 and the new members these commodities will become sensitive and have difficulties in maintaining the previous level of comparative advantage in trading with EU. The most sensitive one is the textile industry in which without the impact of enlargement Thailand has already encountered potential threats in terms of the high dependency on imported inputs at high prices that results in high production costs the inability of achieving a certain required standard uses of raw materials lack of skilled personnel and some discouraged domestic policies. The textiles industry will therefore face severe competition after enlargement as it will confront with not only the existing trade barriers but also the forthcoming regulations such as the White Paper on chemicals and the implementation of waste aching. The empirical study based on the two-stage least squares estimation shows that income factor has much more significant influence on the value of export than the price factor. The other influential factor refers to the quality of the goods. These indicate that it is not the price; rather it is the economic condition of the region and the purchasing power of its people that acts as the main determinant of Thai exports to the EU. The quality factor is even more prominent for the case of textile coded 6110 and television receptor coded 8528 which are empirically found to be inferior goods in the perception of the EU members. While relative prices between Thailand and the new members are not much different Thai products could be easily substituted after the enlargement and will lead to losing position in the competition with the new members in EU-15 market. Moreover for the case of fishery products it is found that there is a potential increase in price. Nevertheless Thailand can increase the export volume of seafood in the enlarged market as long as the products are superior quality. Some manufacturing sectors will also experience similar increasing trend of export after enlargement. For example motor and parts industry remains its comparative advantage over the previous EU members. However in comparison with the new members some products such as bicycle and aluminium parts pose comparative disadvantage. Nonetheless the degree of impact will not be serious as most of the products supplied by Thailand and the new members are in different lines. On the other hand a rise in relative prices between Thailand and the new members in electric and electronic appliances can eventually lead to a drop in export values; the quantitative analysis infers that a decline in tariff rates to the new members would significantly lead to a reduction in Thai export values. Regarding rubber jewelry footwear and cassava industries Thailand maintains its comparative advantage over the EU-15 and new member countries in almost all commodities. However the situation requires close watch as there are issues of concern regarding legal issues and trade measures that may negatively affect Thai exports in some lines of commodities. A qualitative study based on policy-wise aspect illustrates that the EU enlargement has potential to adversely affect many industries in Thailand. For instance the minimum part requirement measures production measures and residual disposal measures will contribute to the higher production costs. The directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances RoHS in the production of electric and electronic devices the White Paper of Chemicals to be implemented in many industries like footwear and textiles the principles of maximisation of recovery and safe disposal and the directive on eco-design requirements for Energy-Using Products EUP will also contribute to higher costs to Thai exporters. In conclusion this research project prioritises the necessity to closely watch the changes in comparative advantage from the most affected to the least affected industries namely; first textile and apparel; second automobile and parts electric and electronic products and food; third footwear and rubber; and last priority on cassava and jewelry. In addition the new member countries that require close watch on the part of Thailand include Poland Hungary and the Czech Republic which presently possess comparative advantage over Thailand and the EU-15 countries in many product lines. Besides these countries have large export volumes to the rest of the world reflecting their production capability as well as potentials in trade and investment after the expansion. As such the research draws a recommendation that Thai government seriously take a role as a facilitator to provide necessary information on trade-related measures to exporters besides as a promoter to encourage exporters to focus on improving product quality and increased product varieties which will be beneficial for exporting to the newly enlarged European market. Keywords: European Union EU Enlargement Europe International Trade Comparative Advantage.
Major of 700 rubber cooperatives in Thailand reside in the south. These cooperativesproduce ribbed smoked sheets RSS using fuelwood as a source of heat supply. From preliminarystudy it was found that these cooperatives used the fuelwood inefficiently. Heat from the woodcombustion was largely drained through a draft tube as it contained a large amount of smoke particleswhich were thought to darken the rubber sheets and hence devalue the price. This resulted in ahuge loss of energy. If the loss is to reduce a means of removing or reducing the smoke particlesneeds to be investigated so that all the combusted gas can be used without excessive darkening ofthe rubber sheets. This is the main objective of this research project. A rubber smoking room built inyear 1994 so-called 1994 model was selected as a model for modification. The modification costmust be minimized otherwise the rubber smoking operators are not able to afford it. In the first stepof this research smoke particle size distribution and concentration were experimentally determined. Itwas found that major of the particles was in the 1-micron range and the concentration dependedstrongly on moisture content of the wood. A self-designed wire-cylinder electrostatic precipitatorESP was selected to be the collection device as it had high efficiency and low pressure drop. Gasflow in the current empty smoking room was modeled by FloVent a CFD package. Modification ofthe smoking room was also carried out by FloVent modelling. It was found that increasing number ofventilating lids on the ceiling helped improvement of gas flow and temperature distribution in the room.Nevertheless the improvement was not utterly clear as the flow depended strongly on the gas outletson the floor which were left untouched. Two experiments in the modified room with and withoutESPs were carried out. Results showed that the color of the rubber sheets dried in the roomequipped with ESPs was clearer than normally dried rubber sheets. The rubber sheets dried in theroom without ESPs was however slightly darker but it could still be sold as 3rd-grade RSS withoutprice devaluation. Fuel consumption was reduced from 856 kg per ton of dry sheet to 586 kg per tonof dry sheet or 31.5%. This would save the fuel cost of about 100000 Baht per year for theproduction capacity of 500 ton per year calculated using fuel price at 0.80 Baht per kilogram.Quality of the dried sheets is improved as well. An indirect benefit of the modified room is thereduction of health risk of worker as all the exhaust gas is now drained to the ambient outside of thefactory without any leakage to the workplace environment. The payback period is 3.5 years if allrooms are to be modified.
An optimum processing condition for brown parboiled rice preparation wasstudied by using three different brown rice varieties of 1 KDML 105 2 Chai Nat and3 Supanburi 1. Raw brown rice was put into water whose temperature was at about70oC and 80 oC in an initial soaking step. After that the soaking water was heated up bymeans of saturated steam at 105 oC for 10 minutes 15 minutes and 20 minutes. Furtherreducing moisture level of the processed brown rice was carried out by shade-dryingmethod. The temperature employed during shade drying period was constantlycontrolled to be between 25-30oC. By shade-drying process moisture content of theprocessed brown rice was finally brought down to be at about 12-13% .Determination in physical properties with regards to % yield rice recoverykernel whiteness and yellowness absorption capacity hardness of cooked rice andcooking time was studied. Furthermore chemical properties in quantitative nutritionanalysis of both Vitamin B2 and Vitamin E were determined in comparison to currentparboiled rice broadly available in the market.It was found that the optimum condition to prepare brown parboiled rice wasdifferent depending upon rice varieties. For KDML 105 it was studied that raw KDML105 should be put into soaking water constantly heated at 70 oC for 2 hours. After thatthe 70oC soaking water was later heated up by saturated steam at 105 oC for 10-20minutes. Followed by shade drying process the moisture content of KDML 105 brownparboiled rice decreased to be at 12-13% in the final end. Different parboiling processwas observed for brown Chai Nat as it required to be soaked in soaking water with 80 oCfor 4 hours. Further heating the soaking water for 20 minutes was done by 105 oCsaturated steam and shade-dry was proceeded in the final step. Lastly for brownparboiled rice preparation of Supanburi 1 soaking water with 70 oC for 4 hours wasconducted. The soaking water was further heated up by 105 oC saturated steam for 15-20 minutes and then was followed by shade-drying in the end.Regarding the nutrition analysis of Vitamin content it could not be tested for allthree brown rice varieties of KDML 105 Chai Nat and Supanburi 1 including parboiledrice sampled from current market. However Vitamin B2 was quantitatively analyzed forbrown parboiled rice tested. It was reported that Vitamin B2 of parboiled rice preparedfrom brown rice significantly decreased greater than using paddy when compared at anequivalent amount of 100 grams parboiled rice.




This research aimed to study the safety committee that have been founded by the labour law. The objectives of the research are: 1 to study problems and obstacles of running programs; 2 to propose suggestions about strength structure authorities responsibilities and relationships at work with the safety department and safety officers at various levels. 3 to prepare suggestions about law regulations; and 4 to prepare a draft of training curriculum. This is a descriptive research. The population comprises of the safety committee in high and low risk factories and factories received awards for having the best safety record from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Industry. Factories were divided into small medium and large sized factories. The research instruments consisted of 1 questionnaires sent to the mentioned factories for distributing to the specific 4424 samples of the chairman of committee the committee and secretary the committee at the level of command and the committee at the level of operation. 2 interviewing forms for the interviewing of 568 people of the group of people mentioned above in the factories with those factories permission. 3 Tri Party meeting consisted of employer and employee representatives and officers from Department of Labour Protection and Welfare. The statistics used in analysis are percentage mean standard deviation t-test one-way ANOVA and content analysis. The data analysis result was from returned questionnaires of 1396 people and returned interview forms from 345 people and found that : 1 problems and obstacles in work safety were the employer the administrator and the supervisor did not realize the importance of safety the limitation of budget lack of power and lack of motivation; 2 factors effected to the strength in high level were: the technical factor of meeting and the connection between the safety committee and the safety officer at the level of professional; 3 Trade Union in committee structure should be set up and training should be provided for the group of committee to have knowledge to be able to perform duties according to the law; and 4 the training curriculum should consist of content about duties appointed by the law and the basic academic knowledge. The suggestions from the research are to : 1 revise the safety committee law; 2 promote employers and their staff to realize the importance of work safety; 3 use meeting techniques efficiently; 4 find out motivations for administrators to develop the occupational health and safety management system; and 5 use guidelines of CSR as a tool in operating work safety. 




The objectives of this research were to study the business implementationproblems and developing business cooperation among cooperatives in Sansai district Chiang -Mai. The data were collected from 18 cooperatives by using documents in-depth interviewsgroup discussions seminars and field studies.The findings of the study showed that most cooperatives in Sansai districtimplemented multi-purpose businesses individually without thorough application of conceptsprinciples or methodology. Business transactions with the cooperatives were done withoutworking through the group system. Lack of cooperation among the cooperatives also causedproblems in administration of funds lack of knowledge and understanding of cooperatives etc.The results also showed that management development of cooperatives and theemphasis on the control roles played by the government without any linkage with localcommunity cultures. Lake of coordinating mechanism and quality process of relationshipbuilding result in separate work of members and the cooperatives.Feasible business linkage development in academic information mutualtransaction buying collective buying collective selling and business funds were found continuityof knowledge and understanding through implementation of joint activities by setting up centralmechanism for field coordination strong working group and continuous budgets provision forimplementation of their activities.
The second Mekong international bridge construction project sited at Mukdahan Province will play an important role for the East-West corridor development project. The bridge construction will be a key for the international transportation network development among Thailand Lao Peoples Democratic Republic Vietnam and other East Asian countries. It also enhances the Mekong sub-regional countries to become an economic corridor leading to promote private investments manufactures commercials agriculture tourism and services.It is clear that large scale construction project may cause some unavailable direct and indirect impacts to the environment nearby both during construction and operation phases. Direct impacts on physiochemical and biological resources may occur to quality of air surface water noise and ecology and living resources. The impacts also occur indirectly to water and solid waste management healthy and hygienic living and social management due to over crowd and immigration especially in Mukdahan Municipal areas. Therefore environmental issues need more careful consideration for a sustainable development of Makdahan climate.A study of an environmental monitoring program nearby the second Mekong international bridge site Mukdahan Province during 2003 before the international bridge construction indicated that environment of Mukdahan Municipal areas and the construction site was in excellent conditions. Air noise and surface water quality are in appropriate range and suitable for normal living. Mukdahan Province is full of natural forests parks and tourist recreation sites. It is valuable to conserve the province environment for sustainable living of the man kind.


The objectives of the project are to make a life cycle inventory for cementproduct and steel making to assess environmental impacts of cement productthrough its entire life cycle starting from mining cement production to retailersdistribution and to assess beneficial environmental impacts of using wastes andhazardous wastes from other industries as substitute fuel for cement kiln. Type 3Eco-labeling for the cement product is also developed from the life cycle impactassessment study.From the results of the project as per 1 ton of cement product 973 – 980kilograms of CO2 are emitted. unpacked to bag-packed respectively. Most ofemitted CO2 are generated from Clinker Burning process. Burning one ton of clinkeremits approximately 909 kilograms of CO2. From the life cycle impact assessmentusing wastes as a substitute fuel and by-product from lignite power plants as asubstitute gypsum in the Cement Grinding process have lower environmentalimpact. It is however dependent on distance between waste sources and cementplants as well.For the steel making industry 0.883 kilograms of CO2 are emitted fromproduction of one kilogram of billet. Electricity consumption in production process is amajor source of CO2 generation which is 62.50% of total emitted CO2. Therefore animprovement of production process particularly electric-arc furnace to enhanceeffectiveness of electricity consumption is a key strategy for minimizing anenvironmental impact of steel making industry.Key words: Life Cycle assessment LCA Life Cycle Inventory LCI NationalDatabase Environmental Management Cement Industry Steel-making industry
The purpose of the project is to address the lack of knowledge in earth science and astronomyin Thailand by creating new learning tools for teaching. Currently there are eight new learningtools that have been produced namely: universe solar system earth system atmospherehydrosphere lithosphere biosphere and global change. In each learning tool there is contentinformation for teaching the activities a guideline for teachers and students in electronic copywhich can be modified to suit each task. These learning tools were formulated and tested byparticipating teachers and students from sixteen Kirdkao Observatory science camps throughoutthe country. The copy of the new learning tools will be distributed in CD format as well as onthe LESA website www.lesaproject.com for free download. As a result of the LESA project notonly are young researchers generated in our society but also it creates a new cooperative theLESA school network which currently consists of a hundred and ninety-five schools. Above allthis is the beginning of an international cooperation such as: The Thai – New Zealandexchange students program and the NASA CloudSat Education Network.
Objectives: 1. To determine the demographics and epidemiology of toxic ingestion especially corrosive agent existing in household cleaner products in Thailand 2. To study the number and type of toxic agents in household cleaner products and to review the management of corrosive ingestion and the regulations of these products. 3. To summarize and present the preventive strategies. Methodology: This project was composed of many sub projects in different dimensions. First an epidemiology of toxic ingestion was studied in 6 tertiary hospitals for a period 12 months. Second Literatures of epidemiology treatment regulation about corrosive agent existing in household cleaner products were reviewed. Third severity of corrosive agents and a suitable time for initial management with dilution method were evaluated in animal models. Fourth knowledge and behavior of people towards household cleaner products and illegal products were surveyed. Fifth the database of toxic agent in household cleaner products was constructed. Sixth an economic loss from corrosive ingestion was analyzed. The last preventive strategies were summarized and presented. xxResults: The toxic substances most commonly ingested were medicines household products and agricultural insecticidesherbicides. There was a multiplicity of household products in the markets but majority were less toxic. Unfortunately the household cleaner products having corrosive substances especially toilet cleaners were the most danger of household products. Its main component was hydrochloric acid that can cause severe injuries to the upper alimentary tract and leading to disability or dead. Nowadays there are neither specific treatments nor detoxification for decreasing the injuries. Discussion and conclusion: There was a wide diversity of toxic substances in household products but the most danger was corrosive substances existing in household cleaner products. Today household products registration label and hazard symbols on the containers are compulsory by law. However these strategies can not prevent toxic exposures effectively. In conclusion allowing only less toxic or non toxic components in all household products is the best prevention for decreasing unexpected injuries disability and dead. SuggestionFurther implicationImplementationFurther Study or Research: Most toxic exposures occurred in household and household products were very common. Then the regulation of these products should be reviewed for decreasing the toxic exposures especially corrosive substances existing in household cleaner products.
The most essential device for the actives is a surface swimming goggle. The main purposes for wearing the goggles are safety and vision. The standard quality testing - BS5883 is an essential evaluation for safe goggles. The verification permits the sale not only in Europe but worldwide. Additionally the modern swimming goggles become fashion items and have complex shapes. Therefore the proper goggle design is the must for shortening the time to market. The first aim of this research is to develop the goggle design procedure by using Computer-Aided Design CAD. Grouped goggle features into solid models has been found convenient and accelerated the design. The use of CAD greatly reduces the design to market period. The second aim is to use Computer-Aided Engineering CAE simulate the quality test. Samples of goggle were locally tested according to the BS Standard for supporting the simulation of Finite Element Analysis FEA. The elongation under tensile simulation of nosepieces has an average error of 11 %. The deformation under compressive test of eye cups has the average error from –4.21 % to 0.29%. The impact results by FEA indicated stresses less than the ultimate stress satisfied the test result with no fracture or permanent deformation on lens. Our FEA method of conducting the wearing simulation can indicate the discomfort location.
Asphalt emulsion for roof coating consists of asphalt water emulsifier and additives. The preparation procedure is as follows. Asphalt was melted and mixed with fuel oil at 85-90°C. The asphalt solution was mixed with emulsifier solution 75-80°C which consists of a surfactant carboxyvinyl polymer and water. The additives mixture which consists of CaCO3 talc and BaSO4 was to be added into the asphalt solution at 60°C. The test results of asphalt emulsions using anionic emulsifier Nansa HS 80SPF cationic emulsifier cetyltrimethyl ammoniumbromide CTAB and nonionic emulsifier nonyl phenol ethoxylate TERIC N 100 showed that asphalt emulsion using TERIC N 100 gave the best performance. It was able to dry within 24 h stable under heat at 100°C and resisted water and ultraviolet ray. Coating on tile asphalt emulsion showed no water penetration. Nansa HS 80SPF asphalt emulsion did not resist water and the film of CTAB asphalt emulsion was cracked from heat test. Cationic asphalt emulsion from Tipco company as found sold in the market was mixed with TERIC N 100 asphalt emulsion at different weight ratios of TERIC N 100 emulsion to cationic emulsion 1:1 1:2 and 1:3. None has passed the water penetration test. TERIC N 100 asphalt emulsion was further improved and the best formula consists of 40 g of asphalt 160 g of condensed fuel oil 40 g of water 3.75 g of TERIC N100 0.11 g of carboxyvinyl polymer 1 g of HEC cellulose 14.21 g of CaCO3 12.18 g of BaSO4 12.18 g of talc and 1.42 g of bentone. The test properties and drying time were as good as the commercial one.
The electrical high power cable towers are normally employed for electrical power transmissionEPT around the region in Thailand therefore the use of the tower for fiber optic cable for communication is always available in all regions. The test of fiber optic cable The cables consist of 2 types one is All Dielectric Self-Supporting ADSS the other is Figure-8 Cables and Multipurpose Cables Figure-8 for the optimum conditions with low losses and cost is needed where the concerning parameters such as cable curvature losses operation time and lightning effects are required to investigated before the mass production. To perform the cable testing the sampling cable was installed on the electrical tower with different cable spans and sags the span is 92.00 m and 184.00 m. Then the signal transmission loss was measured. The lightning effect of the same cable was also investigated in the high voltage laboratory. Results obtained have shown that the cable with shot sag and long span have long operation time and low costs installation and the lightning effect does not interface into the optical signal.
At present there are more than 700 rubber farmer cooperatives in Thailand. The cooperatives were mostly formed during 1994-1995 to serve Department of Cooperative Extensions scheme for farmer cooperation and for air dried smoked sheet production. The scheme aimed to help the farmers produce good quality air driedsmoked sheet rubber as a bulk production in stead of individual production which gave different grades. Good quality rubber sheet production needs to have efficient practices for marketing competition. The automatic rubber sheeting machine can solve the problems of complication process and lack of skill labors for production. In addition the farmers can use their spate time for other supplementary activities and formulate groups for their works which our good for their living hood in communities. Sheet rubbers in Thailand are not certified for quality assurance due to diversity of processing of individual farmer. A quality of rubber sheet has to be standardized but it is difficult in present situation. Adoption of rubber sheeting processing to automatic sheeting machine which give a standard output will make dried rubber the same quality. This will lead to the certification of rubber sheets quality assurance. One way for individual farmer to adopt the machine for their production has to set a group of farmer to another way may a small enterprenewes owns the machine and service their customers. The farmer groups rubber cooperatives who are big producers have to use the machines so that the rubber sheets are standardized. They can be certified quality assurance as Standard Thai Rubber STR. This study revealed or showed that by mixing and stirring a composition of latex and formic acid @ 3% with 6 flippers stainless paddle at a speed of 300 rpm for 20 seconds the latex was hardened quickly without changing the properties rubber sheets was properly formed and was ready to be pressed within 12 minutes. An electric power with 0.5 unit per hour was used and thereby produced the capacity of 200 sheetshr. An automatic controller was used Programmable Logic ControllerPLC to command major component with computer programme and electric sensors to keep records and eventually there will be more production of good quality and standardized rubber sheets in the future.
Ecological Landscape Tourism Routes; a case study of High Way Route 1096 in Chiang MaiThailand is one of four sub- projects for Net work Tourism Project that to be present by Faculty of ArchitectureChiang Mai University. The area for is cover on the Highway 1096 and Doi Suthep – Pui National park inChiang MaiThe Tourism is belonging to the nature. Especially the Ecology the nature is the beginning of life andcan be ruin by the misunderstanding development. It is the most important to have a plan for develop the area tosupport the tourist. This plan has to be sustaining for the area and the community around the area. The target isto set a plan for Ecological tourism that can be helps their economic with out disturb the environment.There are two types of landscape: Natural Landscape and Cultural Landscape or Man-madeLandscape. Ecotourism is learning in natural environment with the nature knowledge. This tourist is includesthe responsible in nature culture or anything about Ecological. Ecotourism is cover the 4 components: areamanagement activity and process and co-operatingThis project is base on the complete tourist promotion for Ecological Landscape Tourism Route. This projectwant to get prove in economic without disturb the nature. So we would like to present1. The Ecological Landscape Tourism Route Handbook for tourist and tourist company2. Earn the natural knowledge for tourist and tourist company
This Architectural Routes for Historical Tourism Project was an attempt to design a model for an architectural tour of the historical city of Chiang Mai in order to formulate a systematic presentation of valuable historical architecture combined with tourism linking all kinds of knowledge. Visitors can enjoy both the pleasure and the knowledge while their awareness of conservation increases. Meanwhile the community can benefit in terms of economy and participation in the conservation of the architecture in their areas.Recommendations are also made on the use of areas in the historical city for setting up niche markets such as ancient places temples and significant buildings in the community to the full potential and to fit in with the conservation activities and conservation of the resources related to tourism. All relevant parties will be encouraged to participate to ensure a sustainable development and useful information system for tourists the tourism industry and the community.Physical data was collected. Areas were divided to conduct a survey and to arrange suitable walking tour routes for the Chiang Mai historical city. Testing of the tour routes was conducted with various groups of tourists and the results were analyzed. After that a plan was drawn up and examined while the routes were synthesized based on the conditions and reality.The results were 16 historical tour routes of Chiang Mai city which could provide perfect access to tourist attractions and reduce obstacles that could affect tourism in many ways. This kind of arrangement can respond to the policy of developing cultural tourism to preserve the heritage and create income for the local people. The results of the study together with a the map of the tour routes and details of places on the routes will be distributed to independent tourists tour guides tourism related businesses and educational institutions from primary to higher levels.Recommendations were also made to the relevant offices to improve the routes and facilities and to publicize these historical architectural routes to create income for the community and the local people.

This research studies the Pedestrian Street in Chiang Mai Thailand. The objectives are to build up body of knowledge concerning pedestrian street development suggest the probable and sustainable network of pedestrian street in Chiang Mai and find ways to enhance potentials and effectiveness. The scope of area is within the Chiang Mai Municipality especially in the present pedestrian street which is used for data colleting ground. The methods used are content analysis surveying criteria setup questionnaires focus group seminar and quantitative analysis. The findings are that the users in the pedestrian street in Chiang Mai from the sampling and questionnaires are mainly local people. The number of users tends to be constant all year round; 33000 persons per day with estimated spendings of 9-10 millions baht a day. The success indicators yields that the pedestrian street in Chiang Mai well-succeeded in terms of social and economic aspects but fails to address the environmental issues. The proposed future pedestrian street network in Chiang Mai consists of the network of Thapae Road Changklan Road Loikroh Road and the area of Rajadamnoen and Prapokklao Road.There are two levels of development for the pedestrian street in Chiang Mai. The present development is to improve the quality of the existing pedestrian street while the future development is to aim for the sustainable pedestrian street. With careful long term planning and development the present Chiang Mai pedestrian street has the potential to be the first permanent pedestrian street in Thailand.
The objective of this research was to study the properties of concrete containing sludge water from ready-mixed concrete plant. The properties tested were basic properties of sludge powder which was dried at 110 ± 5 oC and sludge water. Fresh concrete properties included unit weight initial slump and slump loss setting time and temperature rise. Compressive splitting tensile and flexural strengths and modulus of elasticity at 28 days were investigated on mechanical properties. Furthermore durability properties tested were drying shrinkage and sulfuric and hydrochloric acids attacks. Sulfuric and Hydrochloric acids solution were kept constantly at a concentration of 5 wt.%. The main parameters varied in this test were the percentage replacements of sludge water in tap water 0 tap water 10 20 and 30 % by weight water to cement ratios 0.5 0.6 and 0.7 and the ratios of paste volume to minimum void volume of compacted aggregate in dry state γ 1.2 1.4 and 1.6. The test results showed that sludge water has a high alkalinity up to 12.2 pH and totalsolids content equal to 73250 mgl which higher than the minimum specified value according toASTM C 94 standards. Chloride and sulfate contents in sludge water have lower than themaximum specified quantity could be used mixed ready-mixed concrete whereas sludge powderconsist of unhydrated and hydrated cement and ettringite 3CaO.Al2O3.CaSO4.32H2O and couldnot be used as pozzolanic as specified by ASTM C 618 standards. Fresh concrete unit weightsand temperature rise did not be affect by sludge water replacement. Furthermore initial slumpwas decreased while slump loss was faster than the conventional concrete when the percentagereplacements of sludge water in tap water were increased whereas setting time decreased.Compressive splitting tensile and flexural strengths and modulus of elasticity at 28 days weredecreased when the percentage replacements of sludge water increased whereas drying shrinkageand the weight loss due to sulfuric and hydrochloric acids attacks were increased. And from thespecification of water for mixing concrete can be concluded that sludge water can be used toreplace in tap water up to 30 wt.% which the total solids content of water sludge water and tapwater has not more than 15900 mgl.
This research work is to study energy utilization in a 100 m3 dome-type brick kiln. Thereare 3 processes in the kiln operation: moisture reduction brick burning and kiln cooling. The I-shape brick is condition. The starting weight of each new brick is 2.1 kg and the weight for firingis 1.4 kg. The outcome weight is 1.2 kg.When the energy comes from LPG and wood sticks. The air ventilation is 4-5 ms. Forthe moisture reduction process which is 64 h the average temperature in the kiln is 342 oC. Theburning process is 100 h and the average temperature is 687 oC. In the kiln cooling the periodused is 156 h and the temperature reduction rate is 100 oCd. Is could be from that the outcome isincrease 12.50 % which the payback is 4.3 y and the IRR is 6.69 %For energy comes from wood sticks. The air ventilation is 6-7 ms. For the moisturereduction process which is 50 h the average temperature in the kiln is 323 oC. The burningprocess is 70 h and the average temperature is 684 oC. In the kiln cooling the period used is 130h and the temperature reduction rate is 100 oCd. Is could be from that the outcome is increase28.58 % which the payback is 1.77 y and the IRR is 48.41 %West heat recovery by thermosyphon air pre-heater is used for drying new bricks in thestorage room. The air temperature is around 40-60 oC during the brick firing and coolingprocesses. Which is united for brick drying. However the brick arrangement is a main factor fordrying.
Ultraviolet light resistance on natural rubber for outdoor applications can be improved by the addition of low density polyethylene LDPE. It was found from the study of thermal resistance carried out by Thermalgravimetric Analyzer TGA that the more the LDPE components in the blends the higher the thermal resistance. In this present study the blends of natural rubber and LDPE at various blend compositions with and without crosslinking agent dicumyl peroxide DCP were prepared by melt mixing. Compatibility of these blends was studied by means of Differential Scanning Calorimeter DSC Dynamic Mechanical Analyzer DMA and Optical Microscope. The blends showed the melting point depression indicating their partial compatibility. The appropriate blend composition of natural rubber and LDPE was found to be 6535 with 0.7phr DCP. Since it was found that the blend composition affects the physical properties of the blends in which the blends with 60 65 and 70 wt% natural rubber showed the higher values of tensile strength TS and elongation at break EB compared with the others. However the blend with 65 wt% natural rubber represented the value of hardness in the range of 60-70 Shore A in which it is more likely the desired range for the rubber mat. The effect of antioxidants NN-diphenyl-14-phenylenediamine Irganox and Irgafos and UV stabilizer Tinuvin on the mechanical properties of the blend at with 65wt% NR was investigated. It is found that the blends with Irganox andor Irgafos showed the improvement of TS and EB while the one with NN-diphenyl-14-phenylenediamine was in the opposite trend. Similarly the mechanical properties including TS EB hardness and compression set of the blends with Tinuvin were greater than the one without additives. In addition to the effect of Irgafos and Tinuvin on the thermal resistance was studied. It is found that after thermal exposure at 70oC for 5 days the blends with Irgafos showed the higher values of hardness and the lower values of compression set compared with the one without it. It can be explained in such a way that the post-crosslink may occurred after thermal exposure for quite a long time. On contrary the blends with Tinuvin showed the opposite trend that is their hardness dropped after the exposure. Moreover the study of UV and ozone resistance on the blends showed that the addition of 0.5phr Tinuvin can improve the UV and ozone resistance of the blends. Also It should be pointed out that the addition of 0.5phr Tinuvin should come along with 0.5 phr Irganox and 0.5phr Irgafos for the best properties of the blends.
According to a survey of twenty small cooperative rubber sheet factories in southern Thailand there were 9 plants of model 1994 of factory construction 10 plants of model 1995 of factory construction and 1 plant of both model 1994 and 1995. It was revealed that all of the original aerators installed in the treatment system were broken and unfixed due to frequent unfunction and high maintenance costs. In addition effluent discharge from most plants did not meet the industrial effluent standards. One co-operative rubber sheet plant Ban Tarng Kweon located in Phatalung province was analyzed for approximately 8 months. Results showed that the waters in all the treatment ponds were in anaerobic state in all ponds and effluent of the system had never met the standards for industrial effluent discharge and especially for safe irrigation. It was clear that their existing treatment system could not remove pollutants to the standard levels. Therefore an experiment was established and the cooperative rubber sheet factory at Ban Tarng Kweon Phatalung province was selected as a pilot factory. The effluent from the last pond of the treatment system was taken for use as irrigation water in the experiment and it was mixed with tap water at 1:0 1:1 1:1.2 and 1:4 ratios. Then ash from fuel rubber wood was used to raise pH as the plants requirement before diluting. These 8 treatments were compared with the control treatment irrigating by tap water. The experiment was arranged as pot trail in a glasshouse 9 treatments with 5 replications were used. Chinese green mustard and cucumber were tested plants in the experiment. The experiment was carried out during operation and low seasonal operation periods. The results showed that the plants treated with effluent mixtures had higher yield than those plants in the control. 20Besides the impact of effluent on plants grown in the nearby area of pilot factory was investigated. The experiment was arranged as an effluent irrigated plot compared with a rainfed plot. Three plant species were studied; they were rubber salacca interplanted in rubber and rice. A local plant water convolvulus naturally growing in the last pond of the treatment system was also investigated. It was found that the growth of rubber trees irrigated by effluent was higher than those of the rainfed tree and similar result was also found in the salacca. In the paddy field experiment unfilled grain occurred in the effluent irrigated plot more than the control plot. This might be due to the impact of effluent application at seed-filling period. To confirm this result an additional plot-trial was set up in a glasshouse. It was evident that unfilled grains were produced However effluent application at pre-flowering significantly increased seed yield as compared to the applications at the other stages of plant development and in the control. Water convolvulus in the last pond of the treatment system exhibited growth better than that in the natural water pondThe investigations for safety of plants growth from wastewater from rubber sheet treatmentfor cultivation were performed. There were a number of minerals and metals found in rubber latexand wastewater from the treatment system such as N P K Fe Mn Zn B Cu and S. Therefore thedetermination of those minerals and metals were conducted in soil and plants samples. There were 2groups of plants used in this study the first group consists of cucumber and rice as a representative forfruit consuming products and the second group contains Chinese cabbage and water convolvulus as arepresentative for leaf consuming plants. Result show that the plants grown with the application ofeffluent from the treatment system did not show significantly different accumulation of all of thoseminerals and metals from the control group use tap water. The amount of minerals and metals foundwere higher or lower in the effluent irrigated plants than the control group depending on types andparts of the plant. Overall they were not significantly different from the control group. Theincreasing amount of minerals and metals in plant did not reach the toxic level for consumption. Theamount of minerals and metals intake by a consumer depends on the amount of plant taken in eachmeal. Cobalt and Cadmium were not detected in the wastewater and the plant samples used in thisstudy. Even though Copper and Iron were in the soil treated with wastewater they were not foundsignificantly different in plants samples from the control group. In conclusion the use of wastewaterfrom rubber sheet treatment found to be safe to use for cultivation in terms of metal accumulation inthe consumable produce. 21The assessment of cost and return of effluent utilization for plant production was done. It exhibited that the benefit from the effluent irrigated plot was higher than the rainfed plot. This might be due to high plant nutrients in the effluent particularly nitrogen. This led to the expense reduction of chemical fertilizer application. From the preliminary assessment of farmer acceptance most farmers accept effluent utilization. If the findings of this research could confirm that there is no toxic residue in plant soil and environment then farmers will accept the safety of produce from crop production by effluent irrigation. Besides the benefit from the reduction of chemical fertilizer application is the main point that farmers are interested.
Design of the Rubber Shredder for Recycling Currently various applications of rubber products have been widely found. The waste ofthese rubber products are often neglected without the recycling process leading to theenvironmental hazardous problem. In fact most rubber products can be recycled through theshredding process. The size of shredded rubber pieces depends on the design of the cutter knifeand the capability of the shredder. After the recycling process the shredded rubber is mixed withdifferent kinds of chemicals in order to produce the reclaimed rubber or other rubber productssuch as retread tires rubber bricks playground rubber pads rubber mats in the restroom.Nevertheless the imported rubber shredders are usually expensive; consequently in this researchthe design and invention of the prototyped rubber shredder was proposed to response to the needsof the shredder in the domestic rubber recycling industry. The significant design factors used inthe study are the type size and property of rubber material the angle of cutting knife the cuttingspeed of a knife and the power of a motor used. In this work a total of 141 cutter knifes wereused and they are made of the AISI 1020 CD material. Each knife has a cutting angle of 60degrees and the revolution speeds of both shafts are 50 and 30 revolution per minute. Theselected sample of rubber materials were retread tire pieces bicycle tires and motorcycle tires. Itwas found that for a single cycle the cross section area of the retread tire pieces and bicycle tiresfor was decreased in the amount of 93% after shredding process. In addition the reduction of52% in the cross section area of the motorcycle tires was discovered. The 90 kilograms per hourproduction rate of the designed shredder was also revealed. The promising results were shownconsidering the size of the shredded rubber piece and the productivity of the designed shredder.
Improving the durable and soft ride of solid tire manufactured by Siam Pioneer Rubber Company Limited was carried out by compounding tread rubber obtained good heat reversion resistance low heat build up and good abrasion and tear resistance. It was found that using a semi efficiency vulcanization system a mixture of carbon black with small amount of silica as reinforcing fillers and excessive stearic acid or zinc stearate giving vulcanizate rubber with good heat reversion resistance and low heat build up. Using TMTD as a secondary accelerator produced high modulus compound resulting in low loss tangent indicating low rolling resistance however in this study losing traction property and soft ride were found. With a semi efficiency vulcanization system however the production cost is increased. Low cost cutting was found using some parts of reclaimed rubber with little change in physical properties. Compounding of white tread rubber to improve abrasion resistance was done by blending some parts of butadiene rubber and that higher heat build up could be noticed. Manufacturing of tested solid tire and forklift truck run tests were carried out. Improvement of ride comfort was found by inserting a soft and low heat build up middle rubber layer between the tread and the inner compression layer. The developed both black and white tread compounds produced solid tires with similar performances with high quality imported solid tires. State of cure measuring device was also developed using a programmable data logger as a platform. Principle of state of cure calculation is based on chemical kinetic of sulfur-rubber reaction. State of cure is one of the most important controlling points of rubber product and needed to be closely watched. The measuring unit was design to be portable and modular. It was found that the measurement and calculation were accurate comparing with calculation using Excel. The meter can be implemented easily on production line to quality control or using in research and development as in this study it helped to identify one of the splitting and separation between the two layers found in finished solid tire. This problem may occur when the state of cure is not higher than blow point.
The central goal of this research is to produce latex goods directly from natural fieldlatex not by using concentrated latex as usual. As a result rubber tree farmers would haveopportunities to produce simple goods from the latex they tapped. This would provide the valueadding to their rubber products instead of the traditional trading of raw rubbers.We studied the preservation of the field latex first in order to provide its colloidalstability last long enough for this research. We found that using of 0.3-0.5% ammonia solution inthe field latex could maintain its stability for ~ 2 to > 35 days. We also succeeded in using ahome-made ball mill machine for the preparation of dispersions of latex additives and found thatthe optimum milling period could be monitored by following changes in the viscosity ofdispersions.We then focused onto two main procedures of latex goods production – casting anddipping. For casting we have successfully made a toy mask from the field latex. We used thefield latex with the DRC of 30-35% and an ammonia solution was added unit reached 0.4% inlatex. The dispersions of additives were then added into the latex in order to prepare latexcompounds. Before casting we soaked the plaster mould by 30% CaCl3 solution a latexcoagulant and then poured the latex compound into the mould and allow the latex film settledown for 30 min. The latex film was heated in 80 ºC oven to dry off a water before peeling offthe mould and reheating in the same oven until vulcanized for 210 min. After tensile propertiesof casting films were monitored we found that our toy masks from the field latex had betterproperties than that available in the market. Moreover the materials and production costs of ourproducts are quite lower ~ 15 times than the retail price of that sale in the market. .We also succeeded in producing simple dipping products from the field latex – toyballoons and the general purpose gloves. The same field latex used for casting was also usedhere. The latex compound was prepared as mentioned early for casting. We then dipped a cleanand dry mould into latex compounds and put the mould into the 80 ºC oven for short period oftime do not let the latex film completely dry off. Then it was dipped into a solution of CaCl3latex coagulant and dried in the 80 ºC oven. It was then dipped into latex compounds and thesolution of CaCl3 again until reached the required thickness. The different between the toyballoons and the gloves is the thickness ~ 0.3 mm for balloons and ~ 0.2 mm for gloves. Thususing of a 15% CaCl2 solution and 3 times of dipping is required of balloons while using of a 7% viiiCaCl2 solution and 2 times of dipping is enough for gloves. They were then vulcanized in the 80 ºC oven for 210 min.As we found for the toy mask tensile properties of our dipping products are also in thesame ranges as that is available in the market while the materials and production costs of ourproducts are much lower ~ 7-10 times.
The research on the topic of Development of Local Souvenirs to Sustainable Tourism in Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi aims to find out how to develop local souvenir products for sustainable tourism in Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi. Firstly the finding showed that local souvenirs in Phuket which can be developed to be the souvenir product for tourist are Textile products Shell products and Pearl products. Product development should be considered about Reasonable price Quality of products and Design of products. Those are according to the tourist interests although the level of demand on local souvenir is in middle rate. Secondly local souvenirs in Phang Nga which can be developed to be the souvenir product for tourist are Shell products Textile products and Pearl จproducts. Product development should be considered about Quality of products Beauty of products and Design of products. Those are according to the tourist interests although the level of demand on local souvenir is in middle rate. Thirdly local souvenirs in Krabi which can be developed to be the souvenir product for tourist are Textile products Carving and fret work and Paintingdrawing. Product development should be considered about Beauty of products Quality of products Design of products and Reasonable price. Those are according to the tourist interests although the level of demand on local souvenir is in middle rate. To develop local souvenir products the government must have clear policy and target to develop local souvenir products to conform with local recourses and the demand of the tourists. The local souvenir producer should consider about buying behavior of the consumer and the difference of the tourists around the world. The producer and the retailer should be trained and practiced about the professional system of local souvenir products in Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi.
The Cooperative Group and People Organization Networking DevelopmentProject in Khon Kaen province is the participatory action research PAR projectmainly designed for creating the common knowledge so that the networking system issustainable not being only an ad hoc or temporary relationship. The method adoptedby this project utilized the standard technique of PAR and focus group discussionamong researchers government officers NGO staff and other stakeholders.The project lasted for two years. The first phase was for the exploratory surveyof the strength of the existing networks within the province. The second phase was forthe development of the pilot networks whereas the third phase was for the expansionof the networks and activity implementation. The forth and last phase is for follow-upactivities and writing the report.Three main networks were identified and implemented. They were financialorganizations occupational organizations and agricultural cooperatives. Regardingthe financial organizations the Village Banking System centering around Chai Sritemple of Ban Siew in Nampong district was organized jointly with the Village FundNetwork. The strategy employed for creating the network was through developmentof the computer program for the financial transaction of the bank deposit and loaningactivity which could increase the efficiency and the participating organizations of thenetworks sending their personnel for training. Some organizations of the occupationalgroup network were allowed to hold the shares of the Village Bank of which formerlywas limited to only the villagers of their villages. The outcome of this activityenlarged the size of this financial network and the expansion through the similarorganizations of the village funds in its locality.With reference to the agricultural cooperative network there had been thestructure of network of the cooperatives within the province but the major activitywas limited to occasional meetings among the member organizations. The mostprominent activity was the agricultural credit service rendering to their members withno other business connection among the members within the network. Through thisproject the initiative for linking the local agricultural cooperatives where their IVmembers produced the cassava roots with the dairy cooperatives where there was ademand for cassava chips to feed their dairy cattle. The attempt for promoting thecassava processing for the agricultural cooperatives was realized through the forum ofthe meetings among the member organizations and the business negotiation andtransaction was firstly introduced between these two networks and some otherprofession group such as the Ruzy grass production group also joined this network.The experience learning from implementing this project in Khon Kaen hadboth successful and unsuccessful ones. Even for the successful cases there were boththe sustainable and non-sustainable ones. The two major factors contributing to thesuccess of the project were the cohesiveness of the members and the good vision oftheir leaders. The second factor was the actual participation of the members in theactivities implemented by the project and the members really recognized the benefitsreceiving from the participation. The external factors such as the demand of theproducts in the international market in case of cassava which induced the higherprices of cassava chips or the support of the government for the village fund were notless important. The role of researchers contributing to the success of the project couldnot be underestimated. Their consistency and regular visits as well as the proper roleof intervention were another important factors. The continuous academic support ofthe Faculty of Agriculture of Khon Kaen University was also required for thesustenance of the network.
This research had the following objectives. 1 To study the circumstances of problem management in administration including cooperation between public organizations and groups in Suphanburi Province both registered and unregistered and assess the interest in developing cooperation between these organizations. 2 To find a model and process for analyzing and determining the direction of these public organizationsgroups in Suphanburi Province in a form that still allows freedom of decision-making and addresses their efficiency and sustainability. 3 To find a model and process for linking and networking these public organisationsgroups in Suphanburii Province through building cooperation in a form that creates mutual benefit and is practically feasible. This research followed the principles of Participatory Action Research and used the methodology of Strategic Management divided into two steps namely Strategic Formulation and Strategic Implementation. It included using the TOWS Matrix method for finding a model and process for linking and networking the public organizations both registered and unregistered in Suphanburi Province. In total 17 organizationsgroups were included which can be divided as 11 cooperatives 1 farmers group and 5 savings groups. The following results were found. 1 Before developing the networking the public organizationsgroups in Suphanburi Province had a very closed nature with no links or networking between different groups. Without building cooperation the only links would be borrowing and loaning money for business. There was no cooperation in organising product distribution or pooling of products and services between groups except for Si Prachan agricultural cooperative that organised fertilizer distribution to Suan Pa private agricultural cooperative. The amount of business created from networking in the province was about 27 million baht or 0.91% of the total business value of the cooperatives farmers groups and public organizations that had not registered in Suphanburi Province. 2 After the research projects completion and assessment of the results following the model and direction of networking that the organizationsgroups proposed and tested as retaining freedom of decision-making it was found that the way to proceed with networking amongst the organizationsgroups was to open the learning process to build confidence and trust. The continuing cooperation in four business areas resulted in a total value of 46154597 baht of which 41642860 baht came from fertilizer business; 752955 baht from seed stock business; 249738 baht from milled rice business; and 3509049 baht from unmilled rice and milling business. The results of the success in developing the public organizationsgroups networking in Suphanburi Province came from internal and external factors. Internal factors were for example the existing potential of each individual organizationgroup their willingness the need to join forces and having joint objectives in continuing to work together learning from experience and gaining mutual benefit. External factors were the research project giving the opportunity to unite the forces already existing in each organizationgroup together with providing technical input on networking when needed; the budget to cover the process during initiation; and receiving support from the wider community or external organizationsgroups such as the Suphanburi Chamber of Commerce and the Suphanburi Rice Mill Society. Operational recommendations from this research cover the following four issues: 1 searching for shared interests; 2 determining the networking practice; 3 selection of the network leaders and 4 seeking sustainability. The recommendations regarding policy are: 1 the provincial governor andor government section heads at provincial level with responsibility for such public organizations should become involved at the beginning of network building; 2 the role of the government section heads at provincial level should change to a supporting role and 3 for sustainable development the number of different public organizations should be reduced to a minimum or there should be a single main organization that still genuinely belongs to the public.
The main objective of this research project was to establish the database required for the assessment of the environmental impacts occurred from the production of paper. To ensure maximum application of this database the output from the project was designed as a computer program which allowed various levels of users with different levels of authorities in assessing the database. The first level of user was the least assessable type where the users were only allowed to get assess and to make use of the database but could not make modification to the database. A deeper level of user was the industries who supplied the data for the establishment of the database. This type of users could get full assess to the database where they were authorized to make necessary modification to the database to make sure that the database was up-to-date. With this arrangement the database could be maintained easily and would be continually up-to-date. The investigation focused on five different categories of papers including board craft printing tissue and newsprint papers and two categories of pulps including bleached and unbleached pulps. The processing data for pulps and papers were obtained directly from the local industry. The number of factories that supported the data for the project was 11. Apart from the pulp and paper processing data other datasets were obtained from secondary sources available in the literature. The evaluation of the environmental impacts was based on two criteria. The first criteria concentrated on the direct effects to the environment such as global warming potential acidification ozone layer depletion etc Eco-Indicator 95. On the other hand the second type focused on the risks on human health environment and the natural resources Eco-Indicator 99.
This study had two objectives: to collect and synthesize all published documentsrelated to vocational aspects of person with disabilities and to offer direction for futureresearch in this area. Ninety research and theses which were conducted during B.E. 2534-2545 were collected analyzed and synthesized into 6 dimensions: main factors regardingthe governmental policies and measures factors from enterprises persons with disabilitiesfamily roles roles of non-governmental organization and organization of person withdisabilities and work-related technology.It was found that the majority of research reviewed focused on the factor regardingthe government policies and measures. Although various government measures had beenimplemented there had been little accomplishment in the employment situation of personswith disabilities due to no penalty for those who do not comply to the law. Most of thegovernment vocational rehabilitation centers put more emphasis on the vocational trainingthan other vocational services. However only small number of persons with disabilitiescould get into the training centers each year. Though the majority of employers and co-workers had positive attitude toward disabled workers their knowledge about persons withdisabilities was limited. Most of person with disabilities stilled lack of skill required for the jobin the open market. Organization offor persons with disabilities played an important role inpromoting employment opportunity for person with disabilities.The major obstacle to work for persons with disabilities are lack of effectivegovernment measures such as the education and the public transportation system.The recommendations are that: if the country wants to improve the employmentsituation of persons with disabilities it needs to have effective government mechanisms andsocial support which are based on concept of equalization. There should be more researchon evaluation of various vocational projects work-related technology development and workadjustment since the scarcity of research in these areas is very noticeable.
The objectives of the project on development of data base system network on drugand substance were to develop and link the routine database systems of various drugs andsubstances-related agencies to enable data sharing. The project developed the essentialbase as the required data for each agency to have the same definitions and same codes.The Participating agencies from the Ministry of Justice were the Departments of CorrectionsProbation and the Central Children Observation and Protection Department. From theMinistry of Public Health were the Department of Health and the Thanyarak Institute. Thepilot project was implemented in three provinces; Pisanulok Rajburi and Rayong. Theresults from the three pilot provinces were satisfactory that each agency was able to enterdata for the 37 base variables and transmitted them to the central processing successfully.The analysis showed the comparative drug and substance situations between the pilotprovinces and revealed information on justice processes.To develop the future data system it is recommended that a central data andinformation system unit be set up in the Ministry of Justice to centrally process and analyzethe national situations on drugs and substances while the provinces were able to analyzemulti-agency provincial situation.
Project Local Science PLS funded by the Thailand Research Fund aims to acreate knowledge about Local Science and b promote a learning process based on thisgoal through teacher projects and academic activities.PLS worked collaboratively with school teachers academics local communitiesand NGOs to assist the teachers in developing community-centered research projects andthen to construct lessons based on these studies. PLS coordinated efforts providedvarious kinds of support including academic managerial financial and moral andmonitored these projects. During 2001-2004 PLS funded 48 pilot projects by schoolteachers in seven provincesChiangrai Chiangmai Nan Khon Kaen BuriramNakhonsithammarat-Trang and Bangkok.PLS defines Local Science as both a holistic body of knowledge and a learningprocess using rational systematic skills such as observation inquiry analysis andsynthesis. Its content encompasses science society and culture environment and otherfactors affecting local ways of life. Its goals are to promote better communityunderstanding; and to foster local engagement with challenges related to self-reliancesustainable development and the balance of nature.Three major lessons can be drawn from the work. First the critical components ofPLS success include the need for actual hands-on experience by teachers; a nurturinginter-relationship Kalayanamitta among participants; and an emphasis on process notjust outputs. Second the results demonstrated changes in all participating groupsespecially teachers and the coordinating team regarding self-reflection and thedevelopment of receptive learning attitudes. For teachers the main target changesoccurred at both conceptual and behavioral levels. And third in testing the workingdefinition of Local Science PLS found that the current definition is functional andappropriate. It accurately reflects the process content and goals of PLS.There are four major recommendations:1 Future PLS work should continue the emphasis on contemplative learning.2 The essence of Local Science is not limited to Western science but derivesknowledge from the processes and outcomes of the Local Science conceptitself.3 More diversity in terms of participants processes and tools should bedemanded.4 PLS should provide ample intellectual freedom for all participants. This willempower everyone who is involved ensuring that both academics and otherswill enjoy a meaningful and beneficial role in Local Science projects.
Objectives of the present study were 1 to obtain levels of exposure to agrochemicals in citrus orchard farmers and the exposure factors 2 to assess the impact of exposure on health and economics of farmers 3 to design an appropriate handbook for the farmers to prevent pesticide exposure and to assess the exposure on health impact by themselves and 4 to advocate the preventive and mitigation policy on health impact. The study design was a prospective follow-up study of farmers males and females and their family members consumers in the study area and Chiang Mai City as control groups. Demographic and agrochemical usage data were collected by interviewing using questionnaires and focus group discussion. Venous blood sample was taken for pesticide exposure and health effect assessment using lymphocyte chromosome aberrations. We found that all studied groups had exposed to pesticides whereas farmers had exposed to pesticides greater than consumers in the studied area and Chiang Mai City respectively. Pesticide exposure was studied in organochlorines OCs organophosphates OPs and carbamates. Increased exposure to OPs and cabamates was found in 3 visits from June 2004 to June 2005 i.e. rainy- dry- rainy seasons respectively. Increased chromosome aberrations were also found in visit 3 along with increased pesticide exposure. Male farmers whom performed pesticide mixing and spraying more frequent than female farmers but their exposure levels were not statistically significant difference. Most farmers showed their concern on the impact on health and the environment and agrochemicals are in needed in citrus orchard. Citrus orchard caused water and land problems i.e. increased pesticide contamination in waters. Furthermore citrus orchard provided better income than other vegetations. The results of this study should be disseminated to governmental private and community sectors in order to consider to issues regulation to control and reduce the use of pesticides in citrus orchard as well as other plants.
The objectives of this study were to survey the status the local televisionrole for the community via National Broadcasting and Television Channel 11 Phitsanulok.NBT.CH.11 Phitsanulok Then to study factors resulted inimplementation to research and develop the TV. Programs by allowing peoplein the community to participate in presenting their issues by themselves. Tofollow up the results that had impact on the people and communitydevelopment after the research implementation. This study was qualitativeresearch comprising of two parts ; first documentary research and second survey on publics opinions in lower north towards the present local programsin cooperation with the workshop on Kep Bia Tai Thun Ran Program andSongserm Silaphin Thai Program Thai Artistic Promotion Program from all thestation programs towards the participatory communication and mediadevelopment . Moreover and evaluation of local television for community inorganization level program level and audience level were designated.The findings found that factors in organization such as Station Structureand bureaucratic administration had an impact on the implementation leading tobudget problem equipment and technology workforce . Whereas thecharacteristics of the personnel were qualitatively positive that is they couldwork quite well among the midst of infra structure problem. This resulted fromthe idealistic professional and individual achievement incentive if they havebeen developed they would have driven the organization more effectively thanpresent .The most favorite recent local programs were Local News andSongserm Silaphin Thai Program. They presented the content and theproduction which was relevant to local production for community development together with the Kep Bia Tai Thun Ran Program while other programs were sovague which could not be identified as the previous ones.57% of the audience preference was community leaders andgovernment officials who provided the imformation resources in productionand were interested in knowledge matter. 43% of the audience did not preferthe program because of being a government TV.Channel. Beside it was notcontinual and lacked proper program planning.It found that the participatory production of the audience could bemanaged partly in the audience and production levels only whereas policymaking and production plans were not allowed for those people to participate.From the evaluation of the local channel of NBT.CH.11 Phitsanulok in alllevels it concluded that the Station could not show its potential and role in thelocal TV. Production fully.
The research titled approach to develop people grouporganization as the cooperatives net work in Chiangmai province. The objectives was to develop the pattern and approach to developed cooperatives network . The participartory action research :PAR was applied as research methodology. It was found that the problems of the cooperatives in Chiangmai province include such problems: as poor knowledge and understanding towards cooperative concept and method of involve parties in cooperative movement the weakness of cooperatives and members and poor participation of stakeholders in cooperative process. For the approach to develop cooperative network. The researcher become facilitator who facilitate learning process and relationship of cooperative leaders. The Chiang Mai Cooperative Network was formally set up with it goal objectives regulations and committee. The diverse activities were continuously organized every month such as small ground dialogue academic activity study visit walk rally and MOU on credit and commodity trading between cooperatives. The Chiang Mai Cooperatives Network emphasized its pattern as the cooperative alliance which cannot register as the cooperative federation base on cooperative law. However this network was very active in implementation and progress during two years of research. The successful of the net work will be not sustained due to such obstacle as poor Cooperative league of Thailand un supported law and weak upper structure which cannot perform an academic support and long term risk insurance of business among cooperatives.
Communication in Tapteing civic groups development is qualitativeresearch. The objective of this research is to study the development of Tapteing civic group thesupporting factors of Tapteing civic groups formation the pattern of communication inmaintainning Tapteing civic group network and the communication strategies in expandingTapteing civic group network analysing the public viewpoint in Tapteing civic group. In-deptinterview with key informants Participation observation Focus group and Research forum wereused to complete this study.The results are as follows :1. The development of Tapteing civic group is found to be 4 phases; Self-organized phasesOrganization phases Growth phases Adaptation phases.2. There are 5 factors that support the formation of Tapteing civic group. Those factors can becategorize as following : 1 Culture Way of life and Identity of Tapteing people; 2 Characterof Tapteing city; 3 Suitable situation; 4 Social group activity before the formation of Tapteingcivic group; 5 People and Partner.3. The pattern of communication in maintaining Tapteing civic group network can be categorizeas following3.1 Self-organized phases are using communication in public space mass communicationand forum.3.2 Organization phases are using the interesting issue that is healthy city.Communication techniques among the leader group and the general target group areusing folders leaflets and the municipalitys broadcasting ; Communication techniquesamong the leader group and the specific target group are using human media andformal letter. ; Communication techniques with the accept invitation target group areusing formal and informal meeting ; Communication techniques in organization forumare using future search conference FSC; Communication techniques among theleader and the partner are using the private relationship communication and using thecredibility person. 3.3 Growth phases ; Communication techniques among Tapteing civic group and themunicipality are using formal meeting and writing action project ; Communicationtechniques in four groups activity are using informal communication at group leadershouse or the municipalitys meeting room ; Communication techniques amongTapteing civic group and public are using newsletter and public forum ;Communication techniques among four groups activity and public are using foldersleaflets municipalitys promotion car and broadcasting and using radio.3.4 Adaptation phrases; There are nothing communication pattern by Tapteing civic groupdesign but there are private relationship communication.The communication strategies in expanding Tapteing civic group network can becategorizes in 4 strategies : 1 Using human media 2 Using activities 3 Using publiccommunication and 4 Using suitable communication channel.4. The Mental Model of Tapteing civic groups leader can be categorize in two ways: 1 Leadersgoal in mind is confidence in peoples political and change agent. 2 The way to that goal ischanged from violence to compromise because they passed the learning seminar with Civicnet.Communication pattern to diffuse the leaders Mental Model can be categorize in 2 ways:1 Non-specific diffusion in daily life among the leader and the private relationship people. 2Specific diffusion pass public space and mass media.5. Public viewpoint in Tapteing civic groups activity can be categorize as following ; 1 The mostsatisfaction and perception activity is collecting money and the least perception activity ischildren activities such as organizing garbage bank project in Nongyoun community and surveyingTajeen communityhistory project. 2 The most satisfaction and perception communication channelis radio and the municipalitys promotion car and sound online . The least satisfaction andperception communication channel is formal letter invitation.
The objective of this research is to study the communication methods used in formation of the PineappleEyes Movement the communication methods used in expansion of Pineapple Eyes Movement network the factorsaffecting the maintainance of stability of the Pineapple Eyes Movement the goals of the newsmaking by the youthsnews agency Pineapple Eyes movement the newsmaking process of the youths news agency the factors affectingthe decision of news selecting by the youths news agency spaces and contents of the news from the youths newsagency reported on their own media spaces and contents of the news about Pineapple Eyes Movement reportedby Thai mass media association between member and the network and activities between member and the network.In-depth interview with key informants focus group interview observations of both participants and non-participants document analysis and participatory action research were used to complete this study.The results are as follows:1. The Pineapple Eyes Movement was formed solely by Mr. Chadchai Chearraman beginning with theidea of youths camp activity. Then he has applied communication media such as letter news letter youths radioprogram and internet media in order to establish a strong network communication.2. The communication methods used in expanding the network are divided into eight periods: 1 formationperiod which consisted of two communication methods; 1.1 the communication in the youths camp in the issues ofquality of life and environment and 1.2 the connection via letter 2 the period of expansion in which person-to-personcommunication was practiced 3 the period of expansion in which news letter contact was added 4 the period ofexpansion in which the news letter became the networks news letter Buddho-Euay news letter 5 the period ofexpansion in which the networks radio program was established 6 the period of expansion in which the networksradio program was expanded through nationwide 7 the period of foundation of the youths news agency PineappleEyes Movement in order to enhance the communication effectiveness using the available networks communicationmethods 8 the post-foundation of the youths news agency period to present in which internet media was used fornetwork expansion.3. Factors affecting the maintainence of stability of the Pineapple Eyes Movement are divided into threelevels: personal-level factors include 1 the motivation to participate in the networks activity by person-to-personcommunication 2 the strength and the capability of the networks leader 3 the utilization of spare time of themembers and 4 the supports from the members guardians group-level factors include 1 the usage ofcommunication channels to increase number and relationship of the members 2 the communication in the youthscamp 3 the regular training program for radio announcers 4 the close relationship of the networks members 5 theencouragement of participation in the networks activity 6 the interest and ambitious of the members to work for thenetwork and 7 the loyalty and the pride in the network achievement organization-level factors include 1 thechallenging objectives of the network 2 the easiness to join the network 3 the simplicity and freedom in doing thenetworks works and 4 the improvement of the quality of work using receivers feedbacks. 54. The goals of the youths news agency are: 1 to open an opportunity for children and youths to share theiropinions in newsmaking 2 to provide beneficial news to children and youths in the view of themselves 3 to stimulateThai society to pay more attention on children and youth issues.5. The newsmaking process consists of six steps: 1 gathering interesting news issues 2 news issuespreparing 3 going out to news sources 4 news arrangement 5 news selecting and 6 news reporting.6. Factors affecting the decision of news selecting by the youths news agency are divided into three levels:personal and group-level factor includes the personal attitude of news selector organization-level factors include 1the conformity of the news and the objectives of the Pineapple Eyes Movement and 2 the limitation of time andspace in news reporting society-level factors include 1 the fact of news and 2 the connection of news with thecurrent interesting issues in the society.7. Spaces and contents of the news from the youths news agency reports on their own media are dividedinto three groups following their main media:1 Youths radio program of Pineapple Eyes Movement. The program is divided into two sub-programseach program has 1 hour length include 1.1 Ruam Duay Chuay Dek program: this program is emphasized ontalking about youths problems asking related questions and coordinating for solving these problems. 2.2 YouthsRadio program: This program is variable. The contents of this program contain reporting news and interestedactivities presenting interested stories for youth and entertaining with youths songs.2 Buddho-Euay news letter. It is the monthly news letter that 500 copies are issued each month. Thenews letter is 102 x 176.5 mm. of size and 24 pages each. There are various columns in this news letter. The maincontent of this news letter is about networks news and activities.3 Thailandkid website. The website contains the base information of the Pineapple Eyes Movement andalso has many communication channels as free e-mail discussion board public announcement board and internetradio programs.8. Spaces and contents of the news about Pineapple Eyes Movement reported by Thai mass media aredivided into two groups: printed media and television media. The news is mostly reported in newspaper media. Thecolumn sizes on newspaper are variety from small size to full newspapers size. The news topic mostly reported by themass media is the topic about youths radio program. The images of the Pineapple Eyes Movement reflected by themass media are: a group of young blood youth working for social benefit a group of social s power and a group thathas their own interested media.9. The association between member and the network is divided into 2 forms: one-way communicationincludes 1 using Buddho Eaey news letter 2 using youths radio program and 3 using pager two-waycommunication includes 1 using face-to-face communication 2 using non face-to-face communication; 2.1 usingletter 2.2 using telephone and 2.3 using internet.10. Activities between member and the network are divided into 2 groups: regular activities include 1activities from the group of youths radio program 2 activities from the group of Buddho Eaey news letter 3activities form the group of the youths news agency and 4 activities from the group of Thailandkid website irregularactivities include 1 organizing of youths camp activity and 2 organizing of youths radio program training.
This research is continued from the research entitled The Sustainable Procedures of Village Broadcasting Tower in Response to the Communitys Needs with objectives to study sustainable administrating procedures of village broadcasting tower which meet the needs of the community factors affecting success and outcome of such procedures in both village and network levels and to enhance potential of the community in terms of broadcasting tower procedures. The samples were seven villages in Patue District Chumporn Province. The research was conducted through two types of Participatory Action Research PAR namely the step-by-step method which was employed to promote social relation and co-operation create staff members and establish and support network; and the continuous method throughout the research project which was used to support staff members promote participatory action and supporting events. The evaluation of this research included focus group community seminar in-depth interview and written recording of the broadcasting results.The results showed that the broadcasting tower sustainable administrating procedures that meet the needs of the community were facilitated by three or four staff members who are qualified enthusiastic devoting and experienced and by their community leader. They are well equipped with knowledge understanding and responsibilities in administrating and managing broadcasting tower and handing down to the later generation. Besides village meeting played a vital role in establishment of community participation and broadcasting programs were consistent since the schedules were made according to availability and convenience of different staff members. Through a variety of ways the presented contents emphasized those in the community. However those outside the community were also selected. The villagers were given an opportunity to participate in administration and supporting activities were held to enhance a role of broadcasting tower in the community. Most important of all dependent network of staff members with community leaders positive attitudes and with appropriate qualifications quality and quantity; participation of the community stable network sincerity consistency of individual and third-party support were all key factors that helped promote sustainability of broadcasting tower administration.
The research on The Guidelines for Developing Cooperative Networks of theCooperatives and Agricultural Groups in Petchaburi Province Thailand during the year of2004-2005 sponsored by Thai Research Fund TRF. The objectives are to seek for models andguidelines for developing networks of all cooperatives and farmers groups in Petchaburi eitherregistered or unregistered bodies under the Cooperatives Act 1999.The Participatory Action Research PAR used with various techniques due to certainsituations such as focus group AIC Appreciation-Influence-Control AFPArea-Function-Participation networking workshop seminar study tour local meeting and vocational training. Itclassified into 3 phases 1 the baseline data survey 2 arranging activities for developing cooperativenetworks 3 synthesis the models and guidelines for developing the network. The findings areas follows.There are 8 districts of Petchaburi. The land of Petchaburi is mostly fertile but some villages are very draught in summer. Agricultural farmers mostly grow rice fruits lime banana etc.The total numbers of cooperatives are 62 cooperatives and 84 agricultural groups under the responsibility of the provincial cooperative officer. The based situations are no involvement of cooperatives or agricultural groups but only once a month at the official meeting arranged by the provincial co-op officer. This we call the formal network. The other is the informal network of the Lime Farmers Club which members are about 6000 farmers. Then we start connecting with both networks by dialogues and focus groups about their management problems. One agricultural co-op that failed from the Co-op standard of account can raise up with the advise of the informal network. This case as the key player for developing cooperative network .It is allowed to present at the Co-op official meeting and attract other co-ops to join in networking to help each other. They elect the network committee who arrange many kinds of activities about developing co-op and agricultural business such as seminar on strategic plan for coop and agriculture in Petchaburi workshop on best practice of the success coops in Petchburi dialogue on capacity building of PNA and so on. These help synergizing all co-ops in Petchburi which participate in programs. They can automatically join as 6they are friends who hold the beliefs of Co-op ideology. The local communication is persuading friends to join activities that serve their needs in technical assistance of Co-ops business agriculture and marketing. The network committee has developed to be Petchburi Network Alliance –PNA. They extend to organize all kinds of Co-ops and agricultural farmers to join activities which encourage their ways of doing business and quality of life. The results are in the Sea-salt network cooperate with the 7 ice factories club in Pattanee province the Banana network cooperate with Toto coop in Japan the Lime network plan to establish the factory for preserving limes and the PNA Credit card network between Ruam-Jai-Thayang credit union Petchaburi Teachers Saving coop and Thayang Agricultural coop. The second committees of PNA are elected in the official coop meeting which means the official acceptance as PNA and coop members please. This value chain can be sustained as PNA has the social space in monthly official meeting .They can propose one agenda for developing their activities with the facilitators of coop officers.The model of Coop involvement in the form of Petchaburi Network Alliance-PNA to help each other in Coop and agricultural business and social activities for better quality of life is the guideline for developing cooperative networking. PNA is set up after Coop members and agricultural groups accept the result of the friend network and wish to share. The researchers stress on the capacity building of PNA to understand more about networking management and encourage them to get success in their activities to serve members needs with the concept of participation. Finally PNA and members are in learning society and have ability to think and perform by themselves that reduce depending on Coop officials and begin to help themselves through the cooperative movement of PNA.Recommendations towards PNA are to continue activities as members need under the coop official supervisors especially in cases of more knowledge in capacity building of technical assistance and marketing. The lessons learned from this research are to adjust the new public management that suitable for rapid changed situations. Paradigm shifts of both officials and coop members and agricultural farmers must be done towards the roles of cooperative networking and train networking management instead of traditional bureaucracy of the Coop Promotion Department.
The purpose of this research was to find the suitable method fordevelopment of the community network organization in Loei Province. Theparticipatory action research PAR was employed in this study. It was divided into4 stages: 1 studying of background data problems and cooperation among thecommunity network organizations in Loei province by drawing from relatingdocument people local supervisors and instruments etc. The field work surveywas done through interviewing and workshop-meeting of 4 community networkorganizations including the cooperative groups of producers consumers saving forproduction and others such as farmer groups. The mind-mapping technique wasused at this stage. 2 the study tour was set up for gaining new alliances newpatterns of the others and for analyzing. Sharing-ideas forum and work-shoptechniques were provided for interested groups. The AIC and SWOT Analysis wereused at this stage. 3 the try out of various forms of activity among the networkwas done. 4 The last one included the project evaluation by workshop meeting andreport writing.It reveals that 1 most community organizations could respond themembers requirement with satisfaction. Most of the members were interested inexchanging knowledge and experiences. These groups of organization had varyforms objectives but their administrative structures were similar to each other. Theoutsider organizations played the important roles to encourage the forming of thesecommunity organizations. Their mutual realization of effective group forminghowever for their benefit work motivation group direction intensity persistenceand synergy were at the low level. The community networks in Loei province werethe business and loan network the Kor Rai yai Wisdom network at Kor rai yaivillage Amphoe muang Loei province the Erawan longan garden network and thesaving for production . These four networks did not show their prominent jobperformance.There were 388 groups of community organization participated in interviewand 100 groups from workshop meeting. The 21 qualified groups were selected forthe research. The network groups built up from the research project were startedfrom the learning networks and developed to be the network of business. Theimportant techniques for developing and linking the networks were 1 participationin making strategic plan 2 building up a cooperative centre among thenetworks 3 monthly meeting 4 supplement of knowledge 5 various forms ofcommunication through telephoning letters and websites. 6 continuous andregular visiting.The gaining knowledge from the research is 1 due to participating in theactivities the community organizations began to recognize cooperative value 2The 4 stages of network building up were cooperation linking the target groupsnetwork development and the sustainable improvement management. 3 Thesuccess or failure of the network leans on the leadership quality that is to activatethe network to effectively enhance and support the facilitators roles the equalacceptance of the members the balance of benefit exchange among the networks แนวทางการพัฒนาเครือข่ายกลุ่มองค์กรประชาชนในพื้นที่จังหวัดเลย Abstractculture of exchanging knowledge and system of knowledge management. Thesefactors can build up organization of knowledge and learning and can maintain thesustainable and quality networks. The different quality of organization affects thesuccess of network activity.
The objective of this study was to find out the method and the trend to thedevelopment of net- work group people organization both the registered and non-registered co-operatives. The cooperation between the groups people organization to theother organization for the advantagebenefit to the members and also to strengthen andsustainable to the organization members people organization.A study was made in Lampoon province covered Maetha district area Maethawatershed net-work Baan-Hong district area Lee- Toong Hua Chang district areaNamLee watershed net-work and the cooperative league of Lampoon Limited. This study wasthe participation research by the cooperation of all parties.The result of the study found that there were many different method in thedevelopment and connection of net- work group people organization. The differentmethod in social dimension the different method in economic dimension depends on theproblem needs and ability of each area. The important method in build up the net-workwere to build up the group relationship the group discussion to exchange the experienceand idea for the mutual benefit.The important conditions that effect to the net-work development were 2 partsfirstly was inside condition that support to net-work development such as the conditions ofgroup organization net-work leaders. The outside conditions such as the supports andcooperation from research team the government policy and the assistance team .Secondly was the non- support conditions to the net-work development the insideconditions such as during the harvesting season problems and needs of the net-workmembers the members communication the limit of group organization net-work inoperation. The outside condition such as the government policy the changing in researchteam and lack of the supporting from assistance teams extension and promotion officersor NGO s workers This study would like to make 2 important advice as follows: 1. operation1.1 to develop personnel skill in activities operation for the group organizationknowledge1.2 to improve the trend in operation to the problems conditions andcommunitys needs1.3 to support in skill development to the research team1.4 to build up the method in group and net-work development1.5 to build up and develop in the activities operation of net-work continuously 2. policy2.1 government should set up the personnel development unit2.2 government policy should support in knowledge budget and skilldevelopment continuously2.3 government should find out the skill development of each unit insupporting the community operation to prevent the double operation andfor the community group organization net- work mutual benefit
The study titled The Development of People Network in Trang Province has the objective to study the pattern and the process of networking people groups as well as the management to achieve the strengthened and sustainable network. The research team comprising 14 researchers and 10 information collectors accesses the source by the appreciation influence control or AIC. The AIC ranges from villages sub-districts districts and provinces. The participatory action is applied to this study with the sample groups: cooperatives and other groups. The latter comprising 1142 groups namely saving village fund cooperative women vocational promotion conservative and tourism are not yet registered as cooperatives despite its cooperative-alike formation. The result concludes as follows: 1. All groups vary in activities to separate as business and non-business 7 networks : business such as 1 para rubber 2 rice s group by cooperatives 3 centralize monetary 4 one tambon one product OTOP and non-business such as 5 tourism business 6 RAN LOUY FA purchasing goods group 7 conservative.natural The rice groups are formed as cooperatives while the monetary are done both as cooperatives and people groups. 2. The networks in term of 7 groups as mentioned in 1 are possible because of the gathering of those having the same difficulties and regarding the network helpful to eradicate those obstacles. 3. Means of networking start with selecting a representative from each group to share information with others as follows: group background concept of formation obstacles how to solve them how to provide incentives for formation setup of goals scope of government roles to contribute the groups extension of networks and guidelines on sustainable management. 4. Sustainable network should have: 4.1 The devoted leaders and self-reliance-aware members are very important to create the sustainable network. Furthermore it should have the good activities that could link them to share knowledge. For example the para rubber network แนวทางการพัฒนาเครือข่ายกลุ่มองค์กรประชาชนในพื้นที่จังหวัดตรัง สารบัญ หน้า 5 links its members to cooperate to produce process and create bargaining power to have good price. This network tries to gather money from members and deposits with the cooperative in district level and that will redeposit with the cooperative in province level. Another efficient network is OTOP. Its leaders cooperate to develop products to reach the required standard and then to sell. The rice network and the sky restaurant network join together to sell materials in the hope of less cost and more saving. The tourism network aims to strengthen its management especially of Pak Meng Beach and nearby beaches that should be ordered and cleaned up. The conservative network aims to preserve the environments of ป่าชายเลน ป่าต้นน้ำ and Trang River. 4.2 There are many chances for 7 leaders and their members to get together and discuss what they are confronting and how they get through. This helps them learn and adopt others methods. 4.3 It has the management process in 7 networks from sharing information and interests and continual activities that support the next generation to replace the former one. 4.4 The upstream networks in province level can limit the role of downstream ones in district sub-district or village level while at the same time they have to work together. For example the OTOP network from the upstream to downstream cooperate in production marketing planning to preserve the environment and protect all accident cases cleaning up the beaches collecting the savings and purchasing the necessary needs. 4.5 The assistance from the government reach to all groups through the Provincial Cooperative Officer Provincial Development Officers and officers from Industry Ministry Interior Ministry. They encourage the stages for villagers to get together and contribute in other forms such as seeking markets for OTOP products and tourism planning. Additionally these officers try to make member financially secure by supervising the internal financial management. 4.6 Apart from the officers mentioned above there is another assistance from managers of agricultural cooperatives government officers in province and field coordinators who work closely with villagers to handle the unsolved problems. แนวทางการพัฒนาเครือข่ายกลุ่มองค์กรประชาชนในพื้นที่จังหวัดตรัง สารบัญ หน้า 6 5. From this research relevant to 7 networks as mentioned earlier in Trang Province it is expected to extend this networking to other activities such as network of shrimp and palm raisers. 6. The recommendation made to this study will focus on the roles of government sector and other supporting agencies. They should realize the need of networking and stimulate the leaders and members to get together to discuss and share their own experiences. Still they should create activities that continue the strengthened relationship and networks. They should accommodate the meeting room and support some expenses for the meeting costs such as allowances and beverages. Every stage should be open for all various vocational groups. As for the groups they should have the energetic leaders and determined members who have the same direction to achieve the goal. Additionally they have also the volunteers who identify the problems give them the useful advice and work closely with leaders for future plans. Each meeting should push members to share the efficient solving methods. All interests occurred during the talk should be equally and fairly managed so as to attract other groups to join voluntarily. The weak point of networks is subgroups in village level such as saving groups village fund groups cooperative groups and woman groups due to their distant leaders who hardly attend the meetings. The way to strengthen this weakness is to give the leader incentives and encourage the frequency of subgroup meetings. 7. After the research team has withdrawn the 7 networks agree to conduct a seminar annually at their own cost with the para network as the lead. As for the support from the government sector the Provincial Cooperative Office and Provincial Community Development Office are supporters. The Cooperative Promotion Department the head of the Provincial Cooperative Office will provide the resource persons for agricultural cooperatives in district level to give them advice. The conservative and tourism networks in collaboration with the Trang Tourism Office are planning to launch the continual tourism projects in Trang Province all year round. One of activities concluded in this scheme is similar to the full moon party in Pa_ngun Island Surathani Province.
The purposes of this research were 1 to study the administration and management ofsavings group. 2 to study the supportive of communication in the performance of savings group3 to study the application of the alternative paradigm of communication for development ofsavings group in the future. The study was carried out with qualitative research approach. Thesampling groups included the village leaders the saving group chairperson the village committeesgroup members community developers private development organization and documentaryresearch. Participatory observation and focus group were applied. In addition dialogue civic forumwere used in data collection to understand the change process after research activities exchangeknowledge visiting field trip extending saving group network and villagers forum to share lessonlearned.Research results that :1. The achievement of administration and management of urban community savingsgroup and Cha-nieng sub district saving groups consisted of four factors.1.1 Factors effecting the strong establishment of the savings groups includedgroup must be originated by the community groups were formed based on villagers interests and needs or learning from other successful group. Groups that were sat up to respond to governmentpolicy show its less strength.1.2 The principle of management based on participation honesty generosity andreliability. 1.3 The open for all members to participate of savings groups in theadministration and management of work system financial system and personnel system.1.4 The external interactions such as the communication to the other sectorsin order to make a relationship and extended supportive.2. Communication shows its role in the supportive role of savings group performance.Communication process allows all member to share and express their idea. It is important to usetraditional media available such as interpersonal communication communication throughout theopinion leader folk media. The traditional media can effectively reinforce awareness among savinggroup members.3. The alternative paradigm of communication methods for development for Surinprovince savings group were;3.1 Internal relationship within community and community reinforce process ofcommunication for mutual work and help.3.2 The interaction between the traditional communication and the alternativeparadigm of communication is possible. For example the Interpersonal communication was linkedto civic forum seminar or field trip.3.3 The management of communication network in the community should bedeveloped not only for the concentration of budgets and the amount of networks but also be aimed todevelop network seriously.
This research was to develop a prototype of oil palm branch cutting machine driven byhydraulic power. The machine was expected to solve the problem of skill labor shortage in oil palmbranch cutting and accident reduction at work. Methodology comprised design construction testingand evaluation of the prototype which was made of 4.2 m long 38.1 mm diameter aluminum tubeweighing 9 kgs. A Malaysian sickle knife was vertically -slidable over the other fixed knife whichwas made of S45C steel. The prototype was driven by hydraulic pump and 12 V. battery.Results showed the prototype developed by laboratory could make one cut-off oil palm frondcompletely 98.37 % at the average time of 3.01 seconds per frond. Cutting section was characterizedby 132.42 mm. wide 63.42 mm. thick 4312.07 mm2 sectional area and73.73 % moisture content wet-basis. Machine capacity was 196 frondhour. Results showed theprototype developed by factory could make one cut-off oil palm frond completely 98.50 % at theaverage time of 2.82 seconds per frond. Cutting section was characterized by 124.74 mm. wide67.12 mm. thick 4294.69 mm2 sectional area and 79.97 % moisture content wet-basis. Machinecapacity was 228 frondhour. After some training farmers could well operate the machine andaccepted in general its capacity with little comment on the machine weight. The comment is achallenge for further development. Economic analysis indicates that based on the prototype cost of56185 bath 30 days of annual use 8 hours a day payback period would be 4.44 years.
Tourism industry is the important industry in Thailand especially for the famousdestinations like Phuket Phang-nga and Krabi. The most important problem is tourismplanning is not match with the tourists demand. Therefore this research aims to studythe tourist behaviour in the three provinces in order to compare the behaviour in eachdestination and develop the tourism planning to correlate with the need of tourists. Theresearch found that behaviour of tourists in the three provinces is slightly differentbecause the factors that motivate them to come are similar. They are the naturalresources climate and location. Most of tourists come for relaxing and visiting newplace. While they found the most critical problem in the three provinces are pollutioninfrastructure and business ethics of the seller. Contradictory the host tourismentrepreneurs found that the cause of tourism problem in these three provinces is thegovernment operation. They think the government does not really understand tourismdoes not follow the Andaman Tourism Strategic Planning and lacks of coordinatingbetween each official organization especially the local organization. All problems need to be solved immediately with the intention of developing the sustainable tourism inThailand.
This research was aimed to identify the standard indicators of Spa Business inPhuket Phang-nga and Krabi from the opinions of Spa managers and spa customers inthe Andaman area.The focus group discussions in-dept interviews with the spa managers andquestionnaires for spa customers were used for collecting research data. The collecteddata were subsequently verified classified analyzed and descriptively presented. Theresearch findings were as follows:The spa managers point of view revealed that Spa means aqua therapyappropriate for the Andaman area which is surrounded with sea. Moreover Andamanarea has diverse and fertile natural resources quality human resources readyinfrastructures sufficient facilities and unique cultures and traditions.The spa customer survey presented that the main purpose of visiting a spa wasto relax. Aroma massage and Thai massage were the most favorite spa services ofAndaman spa customers. The two most important criteria of spa selection werereasonable price and cleanness of places and therapists. The research indicated thatspa customers were highly satisfied with such qualities regarding therapists as 10cleanness spa service expertise as well as attractive and proper uniform or dress. Spacustomers were also impressed with the reasonable prices of spa services.Overall most of spa customers rated Andaman spa as 4 –5 star level and alsomentioned that therapists were well mannered and very friendly. Most of the customerswished to visit the spa again if they had a chance. However only a few samples did notwant to revisit the same spa because of the noisiness the lack of communication skillsthe lack of expertise and unhealthy equipment and product use.As a result the Andaman spa should be positioned as 4-5 star spa with naturalsurroundings tranquility and reasonable price. Moreover the most outstanding imageof Andaman spa is the worthiness and quality spa service. Thus Andaman spabusiness should be promoted on these strengths.In terms of the Andaman spa standard this research presented that spacustomers considered Andaman spa standard in two dimensions; the first was the keyindicators by sight and the latter was the key indicators by sense. Therefore theresearchers classified the standard of Andaman spa into three parts: indicators ofplaces and environment indicators of therapists and indicators of spa services. Theresearch findings about the standard of Andaman spa in the spa customersexpectations were as follows:The standard of places and environment consisted of the cleanness of placesmaterials and equipment convenience to reach tranquility and Thai style decoration.The standard of therapists consisted of well manners friendliness expertiseability to serve as customers expectation and communication skills.The standard of spa services included reasonable prices service varietycleanness of materiel and products proper treatments duration appropriate safetysystem.However Andaman spa business also confronted with several obstacles; suchas lack of the spa experts extremely decreased tourists on low season communicationgaps between government and private sectors price competition lack of knowledgeand experience in spa business and the misconception of Thai massage. 11This research benefited Andaman spa business to develop unique Andamanspa standard for worldwide reputation as a hub of health.
The vascular endothelium plays a crucial role in maintaining normal function of the vasculature. Predominantly caused by reactive oxygen species ROS the impairment of endothelial function is a major risk factor in cardiovascular disease. The hallmark of endothelial dysfunction is a significant decrease in nitric oxide NO production which results in disturbance of vascular homeostasis and consequently contributes to pathological processes of cardiovascular disease. Several antioxidant vitamins and natural products have shown beneficial effects in reducing ROS and improving endothelial function. Thus this study investigated the pharmacological effect of capsicum extract CEX and its important component capsaicin CAP which both have shown to possess antioxidant activity on human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVECs function as well as protection of apoptosis induced by lipopolysaccharide LPS. In addition the effects of L-arginine on NO production either adding alone or in combination with CEX or CAP were investigated using Griess reaction. Following 48-h incubation CEX and CAP significantly enhanced NO production in HUVEC at the concentrations 25 µM and 100 µgmL respectively. A trend of enhanced eNOS expression by CAP and CEX were shown but no significant differences were observed in eNOS expression as evaluated by western blot analysis. LPS 1 µgmL marginally increased percent apoptotic nuclei of HUVECs 2.8%+0.84% versus CTRL 1.91%+0.54% as demonstrated by Hoechst staining. Both CEX 10 µgmL and CAP 1 µM showed no changes in percent of apoptotic positive nuclei as compared to vehicle treated cells. HUVECs treated with combination of LPS with either CEX or CAP demonstrated no significant alterations in percent apoptotic nuclei. Addition of L-arginine to the culture media significantly increased NO production at the concentration of 1000 µM. However L-arginine 10 100 or 1000 µM abrogated the positive effect of CEX or CAP on NO production. These data suggest that CEX may have a protective role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease by improving endothelial function through the enhancement of NO production.
Performance and carcass characteristics of Southern Thai Native cattle raised under a grazing system in Songkhla and Trang Provinces were studied. The study found that the native cattle in Songkhla and Trang Provinces were mostly raised as a supplementary occupation under a backyard production system. Mostly the cattle were allowed to graze roughages during the day and came back to the yard in the evening. Seventeen types of roughage were found in the grazing areas. Grass was predominant with five grass species found to prevail Para Brachiaria mutica Anastrophus Anastrophus compressus Swartz Beauv. Stenotaphrum Stenotaphrum helferi Munro Bermuda grass Cynodon dactylon L Pers. and Gian couch Cynodon arcuatus. The cost of raising cattle was mostly dependent upon health care expenditures such as anti-parasite disinfectant and antiseptic which were used during the whole year. However the owners could not estimate the exact cost of raising cattle as the figure fluctuated depending on the health situation in each year. One to four head of cattle were normally sold at a minimum live weight of about 200 kg per year. In terms of growth performance the results showed that the birth weight was 14.40 kg; the weaning weight average of age 200 days was 73.81 kg; the average daily gain of weaning weight was 240.84 g per day; the yearling weight average of age 400 days was 94.66 kg and the average daily gain of yearling weight was 200.15 g per day. Fifteen cattle at an average live weight of 187.01 kg were randomly sampled and slaughtered for a carcass characteristics and meat quality study. From the study the average warm carcass weight killing out percentage and loin eye area were 97.14 kg 51.43% and 53.00 cm2 respectively. No marbling was found at the loin eye area. After carcass dissection the percentages of loin and filet meat fat and bone were 5.58 75.38 5.57 and 19.18 respectively. Both loin and m. Biceps femoris had a similar proximate composition. In addition the average percentage of moisture protein fat and ash from both types of muscle were 74.92 22.34 1.11 and 1.28 respectively. In the case of the physical characteristics of the muscle the Biceps femoris was redder than the loin muscle a* value = 20.10 vs. 18.49. Moreover the m. Biceps femoris had a higher shear force value 7.18 vs. 2.63 kg and cooking loss percentage 34.79 vs. 32.49% than the loin. No antibiotic residue was found in the meat. It was also found that the different seasons did not show any effect on the productive performance carcass characteristics and meat quality.
Eri silk a non-mulberry silk is a new option for local textiles. Eri culture can be adopted as secondary occupation for cassava growing farmers. This can help to generate an additional income through the sale of Eri silk textiles as well as Eri silk pupae. The objective of the project is to develop and implement know how on the production of Eri silk cocoons as well as on the production methods and tools for producing Eri silk yarn. This study aims introduce a new generation of textile besides textiles made from mulberry silk or cotton. The project is targeted at 6 groups of textile producer groups in the northern region of Thailand located in Uthai Thani Nakorn Sawan Kampangphet Phayao and Chiang Mai provinces. From the results of the project it can be concluded that all 6 groups of weaving were able to implement and use the invented processes for the production of Eri silk yarn as well as Eri silk textiles. Eri silk has unique characteristics. It has a natural sheen is light and soft as silk is warm and fluffy as wool and is easy to take care. Eri silk textiles can be used for garments accessories home textiles and other purposes. With the developed production process Eri silk can be designated as a Green Product. This fact can provide an additional value to Eri silk by telling its production story to the consumers.
A study to produce quality durian by applying a proper management of package of technologies and by promoting business cluster between growers and traders was undertaken at Chanthaburi Horticultural Research Center durian orchards and a durian packing house in Trad province between February 2006 and July 2007. The study was aimed to develop a proper management in producing quality durian to meet requirement of market in terms of amount and time and attempt to develop business cluster among durian growers and between growers and traders in order to strengthen the competition ability of durian business. It was founded that when an appropriate package of technologies was fully applied to durian orchards located in different environmental conditions growers could get quality produce to meet market requirement amount and timing with the net benefit per kilogram was between 8.71 and 11.79 baht plot #1 and #2. Although the farm-gate price was 30% off an average price of 20062007 growing year benefit-cost ratio BCR was between 1.115 and 2.781. On the other hand if unmarketable fruit was released even when market demand was high growers would get net benefit 5.59 bahtkg plot #4. The growers would get the net benefit only 4.41 bahtkg if the main produce from their orchards was Chanee variety even the marketable yield was as high as 88.45% of total production plot #3. Unfortunately BCR less than 0.835 has never been larger than 1.00 if the farm-gate price was larger than 15% off an average price of 20062007 growing year. Growers net benefits would increase if the amount of marketable durian and total production per area were increase and stabilize. Also the quality produce should come to market at a right time of market demand. The quality durian would be increased and stable if the following agricultural management was applied; promoting flowering profusely and spreading out evenly the entire tree increasing an amount of fertilized fruit spreading out evenly the entire tree by managing the fruit set process properly applying the proper agricultural techniques to promote fruit growth and development and well protection from pests and natural disasters i.e. rain dry spell temperature fluctuation and strong wind. Late production of durian was one of agricultural management to help growers get desirable price. Paclobutrazol 250 ppm was sprayed twice to flower at 1 month after flower emergence and to young fruit at 3-4 weeks after anthesis. The fruit could be harvested 17 days later than the in season production. This late production could serve market demand therefore growers could get higher price than that of the in season production. A quality group of durian growers at Tung-nonsee Khao-saming Trad province consists of 10 growers. There were 9430 durian trees altogether and 6530 trees were reproductive. They could produce marketable yield about 74.4% of total production for export. Traditionally all growers agreed to sell their produce to durian consolidators for export durian chip makers and traders for domestic consumption by gentleman agreement without any document. This quality group of durian growers was managed naturally out of cluster development theory. However they all realized that the business cluster would converge them to strengthen their competition ability in durian business. They discussed and found that producing quality durian with an เอกสารปกปิด ห้ามเผยแพร่ก่อนได้รับอนุญาต RDG4920015 F:\\010606\\โครงการสกว\\RDG4920015\\Full ReportFeb08 \\สัญญาเลขที่ 4920015_full report Feb08 viappropriate cost of production would sustain their career quality durian producers. They tried to deal with agricultural chemical importers to purchase quality agricultural chemicals at low price to reduce their cost of production. By doing this the cost of agricultural chemicals used in durian orchards was reduced 40%.

This research project - development of plain tablets and sustained released tablets from Capsicum frutescens Linn. extract - composes of 2 parts: Part I – The development of plain tablet from chili extract for clinical study and Part II – The development of sustained released tablets from chili extract for insect repellent test. In part I formulation development of plain tablet revealed that the semi-solid crude extract was a highly viscous material. The wet granulation method using corn starch and Avicel PH101 as diluents were proved to be the suitable method to prepare the crude extract into dry solid. The maximum amount of chili crude extract was reported to be 20 %ww. The granule using Avicel PH101 was used in tablet formulation which passes tablet evaluation standards. The maximum amount of extract was 70.4 mg per tablet in a 700 mg-tablet with the addition of film coat formulation to prevent moisture pungent smell taste and light. The amount of capsaicin in tablet after stability testing in 40๐C at 0 3 and 6 months was not significantly difference. Part II – Formulation and release study by percolation method of sustained release tablet showed that the formulation using Eudragit RL : Eudragit RS at 1:2 released the extract constantly throughout 14 cycles of percolation. In conclusion the film coated tablet and sustained release tablet from Capsicum frutescens Linn. Extract were developed for further clinical study and insect repellent study respectively.
Raising Thai Native Cattle is one of the representative careers of Thai farmers for long time. At past small group farmers like to raise them as labor. Meanwhile at present they raise them as supplementary career; saving resource in emergency case. From interview data of 59 farmers in Western part of Thailand found that most of them graduated in primary education. Rice farm or planted farm is majority career and supplementary career by raising Thai Native Cattle. Farmers have no their own area in raising cattle so they have used public area as side-road for raising cattle. Farmers have their own budget but they dont know how to manage account that why they dont know about income and expenditure of raising cattle. For forage crop data in Western part had no differences up on area province and season. The results found that Kanchanaburi province Ratchaburi province and Nakorn Pathom province had about 19-21 5-6 and 4 kinds of forage crop respectively. There were no differences in nutritional value percentage of moisture protein fat lignin NDF and ADF of forage crop in any season. The results showed that there were no differences in term of percentage of carcass eviscerate and slaughtered by products wholesale cut and loin area p>0.05.
Most of the longan growers are now facing with the problem of obtaining no profit in longan production. Such the problem is due to the growers had expanded their cultivated areas that caused of over production in the season low fruit quality and low price of the product. In order to solve this problem off season fruit produce must be considered to extend duration of longan availability. For the reason the project of producing good longan quality with lower input was proposed to assist the growers problem. The project was aimed to produce off season fruit with safe and good quality lower input and available when the market is needed. Project activities involved problem analyzing gathering of off season longan production technologies longan grower grouping and coordinating between the growers and exporters. Besides technology transfer and consulting in off season longan producing were also included in the activities. After carried out of the project the technologies for off season longan producing were included of tree pruning plant nutrient management control of flower induction improving fruit quality by fruit thinning and insect pest and disease managements. In Chiang Mai province the longan growers were divided into 11 groups. Then four different pictorial posters of off season longan production were produced and handed out in the training session. The result showed that the growers did gain more of knowledge. All transferred technologies were moderately utilized by the growers in the orchards. All longan producing technologies were used in the orchards; the trees were then looked healthy and set good flower after pruning. Also the spreading of longan pests was drastically reduced. The average investment input to produce of off season longan was 7.2 Baht per 1 kilogram. Amount of fruit and net income profit per Rai were considerably good and they were turned out as 866.7 kilograms and 16139 Baht per Rai respectively. The total income of the 104 growers was equivalent to 14149988.00 Baht. All aspects of the project were evaluated by the longan growers and the good rate of satisfaction was given by them.
The efficacy tests of chili and pepper extracts in controlling crucifer diseases and insect pests were carried out at the laboratory of Plant Pathology Department and Entomology Department Faculty of Agriculture Chiang Mai University during November 2005 – December 2006. The antibacterial and antifungal effects of chili and pepper extracts on black rot pathogen Xanthomonas campestris and leaf spot pathogen Alternaria brassicicola were performed with the colony counting and culture disc soaking methods respectively. Evaluations of the chili extract activity indicated significant inhibition at high concentration of 3.0 % on both pathogens but the lower concentration at 1.5 % still active only on the bacteria. While chili extract was very active against bacteria even the concentration was decreased to 0.75 %. Therefore mixture of the extracts were improved antifungal activities. In addition microscopic observation on fungal growth performed on slide culture of WA supplemented with each extract and the mixture showed the same clearly results of morphological disorder of mycelia and conidia germ tube developments. The efficacy test on crucifer insect pests revealed that oral toxicity test of chili and pepper extracts on larvae of diamondback moth DBM Plutella xylostella and common cutworms Spodoptera litura by leaf dipping method indicated that all concentrations of chili and pepper extracts had no efficiency in controlling the both larvae. In dermal toxicity test on DBM larvae chili extract at concentrations of 3 4 and 5 % gave the same control efficiency with mortality of 63.33 – 76.67 % and dermal LC50 value was 2.3372 %. Pepper extract had less efficiency than chili extract with maximum mortality of 33.67 % at 5 % concentration. For common cutworm chili extract showed excellent efficiency at concentrations of 4 and 5 % giving 100 % larval mortality but were not significant difference from 2 and 3 % concentration which resulted in 86.67 % larval mortality at 12 hours after applying the extract. Dermal LC50 value of chili extract was 0.4295 %. Pepper 4 extract had no efficiency giving only 16.67 % at the maximum concentration 5%. In addition mixture of chili and pepper extracts were also tested on both larvae by oral and dermal toxicity test methods. The results indicated that the efficacy of the mixture was in the same way of chili extract. Chili and pepper extracts were sprayed on Chinese kale for phytotoxicity test and the result revealed that both extracts did not cause phytotoxicity on the plant. Three days after spraying no odor of the plant extracts on tested plants and plant taste was usual.
The purposes of the project were to analyze and assess stability of andrographolide and total lactone of Andrographis paniculata extract and to investigate antibacterial property of the herb extract mixed in the prawn diet against Aeromonas hydrophila infection. From the experiment andrographolide obtained from A. paniculata extract and A. paniculata granules were 6.27 and 2.71% ww respectively. Total lactone obtained from A. paniculata extract and A. paniculata granules were 5.85 and 95.53 mg% ww respectively. Reversed-phase chromatography coupled with diode array detection was developed for the determination of andrographolide in prawn feed. The assay demonstrated good reproducibility accuracy precision recovery and limits of detection and quantification. Stability tests of andrographolide and total lactone in A. paniculata extract and A. paniculata mixed in the prawn feed were conducted. Levels of andrographolide and total lactone in the A. paniculata extract kept at temperature 40 50 and 60 degree Celcius for 4 weeks demonstrated not much different from the levels at the beginning of the experiment. However from pharmacological calculation if the extract is kept at 30 degree Celcius the stabilities of andrographolide and total lactone in the extract are about 15.5 and 4.8 years respectively. Also from calculation stabilities of andrographolide and total lactone mixed in the prawn feed demonstrated that the herb mixed diets can be kept at temperature 45 degree Celcius and 75% humidity in less than 2 months. Andrographis paniculata was extracted in ethanol solvents and tested in vitro against A. hydrophila by micro-plate dilution method. The herb extract was effective in inhibiting bacterial growth and killing bacteria by 417 and 834 ppm extract respectively. For oral administration A. paniculata extract was mixed in the prawn feed at 417 834 and 1668 ppm ww. There was a significant p<0.05 reduction in mortality rate of the prawn fed 417 ppm diet following the intramuscular injecion with A. hydrophila. The results of the above experiments suggested that supplementation andrographolide of A. paniculata extract at 417 ppm by weight in diets could improve bacterial resistance and reduction in mortality rate of the freshwater prawn.
The objective of this study is to propose policy recommendations for reforming the Thai political system. In the course of the study we reviewed existing literatures on the Thai politics interviewed over 70 experts and opinion leaders and solicited opinions from community leaders and the grass roots through a series of public seminars and workshops. Based on the gathered information and our analysis we propose a set of policy recommendations for political reform in four key areas: 1. Reforming Political Institutions A key element in reforming any political institutions is the redesign of the electoral system to promote fairer representation while maintaining its governing capability. In particular we recommend the adoption of the following electoral rules: the House of Representatives be elected under a Mixed Members Proportional Representation System as in the 1997 Constitution however the number of MPs would be reduced from 500 to 400. Under the proposed mixed system each voter will cast one ballot for a candidate in each constituency and another ballot for a political party. The seats allocated to each party under the latter scheme will be proportional to the number of votes it gets from the second ballot. The Senate directly elected by the voters based on provincial constituencies. The proposed rule for senate election is a preferential voting scheme similar to that used for electing Australian senators. Elected candidates must receive votes by an absolute majority. 2. Reforming Independent Organizations A number of the so called independent organizations were created by the 1997 Constitution. Some of these organizations exercise administrative power while others exercise judicial power. Examples of the former are the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. Examples of the latter are the Election Commission the State Audit Commission and the National Counter-Corruption Commission. We argue that these two groups of agencies should be treated differently by the Constitution and its organic laws. 3. Protecting Civic Rights and Freedom and Promoting Participatory Democracy The research team is of an opinion that the new Constitution should have provisions which guarantee civic rights and freedom not less than that of the 1997 Constitution. Further potential improvements include: protection of rights and freedom must immediately take effect when the Constitution becomes effective a mechanism to amend existing laws that contradict the Constitution should be set up and a system of direct recall of misbehaved MPs by voters should be established. 4. Reforming Supporting Institutions Democracy cannot be consolidated without free media fair and transparent judicial system and fair competition in the economy. The research team thus recommends the reform of the media judicial system and economic reform as parts of the political reform package.
The purposes of this project are to investigate the Thai governments decision making process of free trade area FTA policy especially during the period of 2001-2006 to study main reasons of the Thai government for making bilateral free trade agreements and the role of various interest groups in the policy making. The study concludes that main characteristics of the FTA policy making process are 1 the centralization of decision making to the prime minister 2 the limited transparency of the policy making 3 asymmetry in the interest groups participation on the policy making process 4 lobbying for the policy by some multinational firms and 5 without ratification of the Thai Parliament. The main reasons of the Thai government for making bilateral free trade agreements are 1 the slow pace on trade negotiation of the World Trade Organization and slow pace on trade liberalization of ASEAN Free Trade Area 2 competition for bilateral free trade area especially in the East Asia region 3 the Thai government policy for export expansion and 4 the lobbying by interest groups who have gains from the FTA agreements.
The purposes of this research are to study various distribution channels and their associated strategies and also evaluate the efficiency of the most discussed distribution channels including direct approach and Internet. In spite of the fact that there have been a number of product distribution channels they can be classified into two major aspects based upon the context of the distribution channel of Andamans culture tourism products: 1 direct distribution channel the product distribution channel started from wholesaler to consumer without intermediary involvement and 2 indirect distribution channel the product distribution channel between wholesaler and consumer in which intermediary is essential in the process. For the distribution channel patterns of Andamans culture tourism products we categorized them into seven major scenarios: 1 direct pattern the channel pattern distributing products from wholesaler to consumer directly 2 indirect pattern the channel pattern that distributes products from wholesaler to consumer via intermediaries 3 specific pattern the channel pattern which delivers products from wholesaler to consumer using specific approach 4 unspecific pattern the channel pattern that deploys all possible means to increase the efficiency of product distribution path between wholesaler and consumer 5 intensive pattern the channel pattern aimed to provide saturation coverage of the market by ฌ using all available outlets 6 selective pattern the channel pattern that involves a producer using a limited number of outlets in a geographical area to sell products and 7 exclusive pattern the channel pattern representing an extreme form of selective distribution in which only one wholesaler retailer or distributor is used in a specific geographical area. For the effectiveness of either direct or Internet distribution channel it was found that multi-distribution pattern appeared to be the most widely used and effective approach. This research is based upon two major research methods: quantitative and qualitative within the scope of Andaman related provinces including Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi. In addition there are two essential parts related to research data collection: 1 specific group discussion and explorative interview intended to gather information from entrepreneur and 2 questionnaire which is purposely used to collect data regarding consumers aspects in which a number of questionnaires were distributed to 140 culture tourism places 51 in Phuket 40 in Phang-Nga and 49 in Krabi. In this case 400 questionnaires were responded and analysed using SPSS 12.0 for Windows.
The objectives of this research on Human Resources Development in Information Technology for Cultural Tourism: Krabi Phang-nga and Phuket Provinces are to develop HR on ICT for Cultural Tourism to set up scope of HRD by participation from concern groups and to survey levels of satisfaction from tourists. The research methodologies are to study research reviews to attend seminars to conduct in -depth interview a number of HR in Cultural Tourism to organize a focus group from concerns on scope of HR development to collect the pre-test and post-test questionnaires of the training groups and to collect questionnaires from tourists who visited Krabi Phang-nga and Phuket Provinces. The study found that some of Cultural tourism products use ICT in operations especially SPA and Thai Massage. Problems scope curriculum and details how to use ICT on work improvement are summarized from focus group session. The research team proposed a Blueprint on HR improvement on ICT work and conducted a basic ICT training course at first level to match the need of HR improvement on ICT in Cultural tourism organizations. The Pre-test and Post-test results showed that all participants improve their knowledge on basic ICT. From the questionnaires 42.8% of tourists satisfied with the received information at medium level of Likerts scale .About the usage of electronics facilities at those cultural sites : 44% found no usage 36.5 % found the usage and 19.5 % did not know that electronics facilities are used. Most of the tourists received information from friends xvbrochures and web sites. The popular cultural tourist places are 40 million years Cemetery shell and Wat Tam Sue in Krabi Wat Suwan khuha in Phang-nga and Wat Chalong in Phuket.. Since there are no responsible organizations and administration for HR improvement on ICT for Cultural Tourism in Krabi Phang-nga and Phuket Provinces the needs are to provide - Basic ICT training for HR to be able to use advanced technology to create in house knowledge base and for business competition. - Policy and plan for continuous training in both English and ICT courses so that they can improve their skills to provide necessary and accurate information to tourists. - An Andaman cultural learning centre: a central Digital database system to support and provide the use of ICT. - Additional reinforcement to train themselves. - Pre-test and Post-test for the training groups. - Usage of ICT innovation as a tool in Cultural tourism in cooperation with other tourism businesses.
The researching of Development Approach of Package Promotion and Psychology for Product of Cultural Tourism in Phuket Phang-nga and Krabi is doing by documentary analysis questionnaire in-depth interview and focus group methods The development of the package the government should exactly present the policy of art of Culture Tourism at the province around Andaman. From that every party should corporative to specify the products that need to develop and it is a main product of each area. Learning about tourist group demand and coordinate with tour agent to present and expand the marketing group. The way to develop must analyze by these issues 1 Assign an exactly tourist group 2 Set up an activities which is combine with other tour program and experience 3 Making a corporation between government tour agent and others to present marketing promotion 4 Tourist business should consistent with demand of target group and 5 Tour Agent must well known with their work and present a true thing to the tourist and do not make them over expecting. Now type of famous marketing promotion by these 1 Public relations empathies by local cultural identities special event for currency to cultural tourism and mass media relations is the medium of publicity. 2 Mass media advertising to continuity and consistency and be aware of product 3 Sale promotion methods by price-of deals exchange sampling and free premium all of urge customer to make easy decision. The several entrepreneur as important word of mouth and come back again. 4 Personal selling and 5 Direct Marketing empathies by customer relations database and media especially by internet for tour agent The way to use the Psychology of service is showing the a real figure as the tourist can see through especially a clean easy reach and charm of Thais warm welcome to combine with quality of service. Underline as the quality more than quantity and always improve a quality of employee learning more cultural and tourist demand especially feed back and impression of tourist for more development in future.
This research was aimed to study about spa business management in Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi and analyzed the appropriate methods for Andaman spa business management. The document information in-dept interviews and focus group discussion with spa entrepreneurs or spa managers were used for collecting research data. The collected data were subsequently verified classified analyzed and descriptive presented. The research results were these followings: Most of spa managers in Andaman area are females. They invested spa business as day spa resort spa and medical spa which cooperated to hospital. The break-even of Andaman spa was targeted for 5 years at least. Spa managers opinions revealed the prestigious points of Andaman spa were the diversity and fertility of natural resources the natural harmonized design and decoration of spa area and the impressive spa service. However Andaman spa still confronted with various problems such as the inconvenient transportation the lack of therapists and the unqualified of Thai herbs which no supported researches. The customers of Andaman spa were varied to the tourists in each province: most of Asian tourists were in Phuket and Krabi German and Scandinavian tourists were in Phang –Nga and Krabi. Moreover Andaman spa services provided more various treatments for the customers to select. The lowest price was 200 baht charged for 30 minutes and the highest price was 15300 bath charged for 4 hours 30 minutes which was presented in package. ณ The two most important criteria of area selection for spa investment were natural surrounding and the convenient transportation. Actually Andaman spa promotion consisted of tour agencies and tourist guides cooperation advertising and public relations and selling spa package together with the room rates or tour packages. Spa organization structures were differentiated to the business size. The spa manger therapists and receptionists were judged as the important positions in spa management. Most of staffs in Andaman spa learned the spa service skills from the masters or spa trainers. The research classified the products management for 6 issues. The first was area management; the research revealed that there were 3 styles of spa design; the indoor spa the outdoor spa and both indoor and outdoor spa. The second was taste management; most of spa provide various herbal juices and some spa presented health cuisine for customers. The third issue was aroma therapy management; some spa used essential oils which were synthesized from the organic farm. The fourth issue was music therapy management; most of Andaman spa used music together with the music from nature such as the rhythm of waves and the falling rain. The fifth issue was massage therapy management; Andaman spa emphasized only massage for relax. The last one was spa service process spa trained staffs to present traditional Thai culture for the customers. The Andaman spa management should be these follows; 1 Spa managers have to create new spa service in order to upgrade spa. 2 The cooperation with community hospital can lead spa to be medical service in the future. 3 Spa in Phuket Pang-Nga and Krabi have to find out the typical points of each area which should be different. The marketing management in each province is also different too. 4 The spa owners should view that the high turnover rate of the therapists is the chance for them to gain more experiences. 5 Andaman spa should seek research information about Thai herbs in order to adapt them for spa products.
The study of approaches to staff trainings for service quality in cultural tourism of Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi provinces aims to 1 examine the needs for staff training in service quality; 2 to investigate the staff training models and techniques for service quality; and 3 to examine the networking processes involving in cultural tourism of Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi. The study was investigated through the sampling selection processes from three different sector actors. These were 1 public sector actors consisted of 41 employees who worked for museums historic and ancient as well as religious monuments; 2 local level actors which included 10 different groups from the Women and Housewives Groups out of souvenir section and three local communities from local leader groups who played significant role in managing local communitys destination; and finally 3 private sector actors which were tourism business entrepreneurs and souvenir retailers from four different companies. The study employed various techniques for data collection. These included focus group discussion in-depth interviews check lists and questionnaires. The data were analyzed by statistical analysis through the use of Means Frequency Percentage and T-test analysis. The results were presented in descriptive explanation tables and figures with captions. The studys contributions can be summarized according to its objectives as follows: 1 The study of the needs for staff trainings in cultural tourism shows that the public sector actors and local level actors preliminarily identify the need for clearer staff development plans of each organization which should be cohesive among the involved bodies in order to work in harmony between them. They also specify the importance of knowledge enhancement for public sector officials and its employees in urgent course especially the issues between knowledge understanding and their coherence with arts 24 culture and tourism industry. This will enable and guide the staffs work performance including raising local actors and other involved sector actors awareness on culture preservation. Another identified issue is associated with the research competence in public sector actors who work in arts and culture which can be too limited to apply the research results for efficient development of their organizations or local communities. Moreover the study also highlights that local level actors local leaders in particular emphasize the need of staff training on community-based tourism management and local involvement in tourism management. Meanwhile the private sector actors point out the significance of staff and organization development for readiness preparation to meet the rising needs of cultural tourists. Their first priority involves the internal trainings by educating all staff of all involved parties and organizations at every level about the cultural tourism modes its destination and its activities for instance. 2 The study of staff training model in cultural tourism highlights that explanatory lectures and group discussions mode of training are required for the public sector. On the other hand the fieldworks demonstrations and opinions exchanging meetings are in contrast required for local level actors. As for those of private sector two different levels of staff trainings are identified. These include pre-staff trainings prior to work and staff training during their employments. 3 The examination on networking processes involving in cultural tourism underlines that all the three involved sectors which are public sector local level sector and private sector cohesively agree on the establishment of cultural tourism network. This significantly requires clear roles duties and activities of each sector as well as fair and appropriate benefit allocation of each sector. The study contributions also show that there are six further underlying factors for more proficient staff trainings in cultural tourism of Phuket Phang Nga and Krabi provinces. These include 1 the specification of target groups for each particular training; 2 the specification of titlessyllabus of each training; 3 training timing; 4 the selection of sites or locations for the trainings; 5 the selection of guest speakers and their preparations; and finally 6 the use of tools and innovative techniques in the trainings.
This survey research aims to assess the potential the role and the requirements of local administration authorities in planning and implementing tourism. The methods used include documentary reviews interviews and group discussions. Responses to questionnaires from 432 executives of 144 local administration authorities in Chiangrai Province were analyzed by using frequency percentage average standard deviation and Chi-Square test. It is concluded that in terms of planning the organizations have potential in all aspects with the highest potential in structure laws and strategies budgeting and leadership followed by potential in networking and other supports. In terms of tourism management the organizations have lower potential. They have moderate potential in four aspects including leaders vision of tourism preparedness of organizations personnel in working with communities and cooperating with peoples in community development. Their potential in other aspects are in the lower and lowest ranges. In terms of their roles in tourism management it is found that they cover all aspects of tourism management but in a limited way. The organizations have most role in managing natural and cultural tourist places and organizing tourism activities. The organizations have the least role in managing tourist service such as transport and other services. In terms of the requirement for tourism planning and strategy the organizations need to develop local people and conservation the most. Among the participatory strategies the organizations weigh people participation over leaders and groupsclubs. The organizations expect support from the governmental agencies the most especially the Tourism Authority of Thailand and Provincial Recreation ฌ Sports and Tourism Center. The management system favoured the most is a joint committee especially in the early years. A comparison of responses from different scales of the organizations including the provincial municipal tambon levels show that there is no significant difference. A comparison of responses from different levels of respondents including high middle and low level executives has no significant difference.
The objective of the study was to determine potentials and tourism managerial planning demands of social sector and NGO of Chiangrai province. The four hundred respondents were involved in data collection. The simple randomization was used. This study was acquired quantitative research methods. The data was gathering by field survey. The information obtained in a questionnaire was demographic characteristic potentials role and tourism managerial planning demand. The Likert Scale was employed. The quantitative data was analysed in terms of mean percentage and standard deviation. The One-way ANOVA was used for hypothesis testing. The findings were as follows: 1. The social sector and NGO of Chiangrai province had the potential of tourism management in the moderate level in terms of planning and management the Chiangrai tourism and the planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province. Who had different in ages would also have difference in planning and management the Chiangrai tourism and the planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province. While who had different in educations would have difference in the Chiangrai tourism and the planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province. ฌ2. The social sector and NGO of Chiangrai province had the role of tourism management in the moderate level in terms of the role of Chiangrai tourism and the participation of planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province. Who had different in ages and educations would also have difference in the role of Chiangrai tourism and the participation of planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province. . While who had different in organizational roles would also have difference in the role of Chiangrai tourism. 3. The needs of social sector and NGO in planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province were in the high level in terms of and the participation of planning and tourism management seminar tourism planning and the organising of tourism activities. Who had different in ages educations organizational roles and the level of tourist servings would also have difference in the participation of planning and tourism management of Chiangrai province.
The purpose of the project is to study the lessons learned through tourism development planning process in ways of thinking process and the coordinating efforts on successful implemented plans and projects and measures to be undertaken on the lessons learned. This study employed ratified purposive sampling to collect data from the target population comprising of Chiang Rai Province Tourism Promotion Committee Sub – district Local Administration Committee in Muang Mae Chan and Mae Fah Luang districts private tourism business enterprises and the people at the tourism destination. The results of the study show that Chiang Rai Province Tourism Promotion Committee had participated in the tourism development plan but did not as yet to translate the plan into effective implementation. The Sub-district Local Administration Committee and the people in the districts of Muang Mae Jan and Mae Fah Luang were not informed about Chiang Rai Province Tourism Development Plan and did not integrate the plan into an actual implementation at the area – based levels but allocated the budget on infrastructure supported public relations and identifying tourism sites. The people the Sub-district Local Administration Committee Chiang Rai Province Tourism Promotion Committee and private tourism business enterprise had well perceived on tourism situations and wanted to develop the tourism development plan through an involvement of all parties concerned. It is suggested that in establishing measures of lessons learned all involved stakeholders have to participate and take part in the planning process at all levels to develop tourism development indicators from community area – based local administration private tourism business and provincial administration in order to transform into management mechanism for sustainable tourism development.
This research aimed to study; 1 the need and behavior of Thai and foreign tourists in Kunming China 2 the comparison of the needs and behaviors of tourists between Thais and foreign tourists toward tourism and 3 the tourism strategies of Chiangrai province Thailand to be the linkage way of tourism between Chiangrai province and Kunming China. The samples were 200 foreign tourists and 200 Thai tourists. The focus group was both public and private organization based on the tourism management. Data was gathered using questionnaires. The result of this study have shown the data of Thai tourists first and followed by foreign tourists. The behavior of tourism in Kunming showed that the majority of Thai and foreign tourists were female and married who have the age between 28-37 and 48-57 years old. Both occupations were technicians who have income between 10000-29999 baht and 50000 – 69999 per month. The objectives of the tour were relaxing and entertainment that travel with tour agency. Most of both tourists went to Kunming for the first time that stayed in the hotel. The duration in Kunming of both tourists was 2-4 days and 5-7 days that reserved a ticket from the tour agency in advance for 3-4 weeks. The budget was spent for souvenir that amount 70000 – 99999 baht and more than 160000 baht. The next destinations of both tourists were Hong Kong and Thailand. The needs of both tourists in Kunming were shown that the need of tourism in Kunming was much in terms of the standard of the airport would be convenient and safe information would be fast and modern and hotel service would comfort and impress the tourists. ง-1 The comparison of the needs and behaviors of tourists between Thai and foreign toward tourism in Kunming found that the need and behavior of both tourists were the same but they differ in the standard of the cost of living which the foreign tourist was higher than Thai tourist in terms of age income the number of country that the foreign tourist would like to tour including the behavior in shopping fieldtrip food and beverage. The comparison of the relation of the behavior of tourists between Thai and foreign toward to tourism in Kunming found that the behavior of tourists between Thai and foreign are highly significantly related with age income the number of tour and the number of country for tour. The comparison of the relation of the need of tourists between Thai and Foreign toward to tourism in Kunming found that the need of tourists between Thai and foreign are highly significantly related with arrival passengers area in the airport the quality and standard of the car rent agency the standard of the entertainment area the standard of the souvenir or shopping places and the linkage way of tourism places between Kunming and Chiangrai or other areas of Thailand. The focus group of the stakeholder of the tourism management on the linkage way of tourism between Chiangrai province and Kunming China would be the development all routes: land water route and airway as follow; 1 Land route: a. China-Myanmar-Thailand: Start from Kunming – Sibshongbanna -Cheng Meung Myanmar - Mong Yaung - Mong Pahlyo - Tah Keeleak Myanmar - Measai Chiangrai province Thailand. b. China-Myanmar-Thailand: Start from Kunming – Sibshongbanna China - Ta Yau – Chiang Tung Myanmar- Tah Keeleak Myanmar Measai Chiangrai provinceThailand. c. China – Laos - Thailand: Start from Kunming- Chiang Rung – BorTen -Laungnamtah – Hauysai - Chiangkhong Chiangrai province Thailand. 2 Water route: a. Start from Chiang Rung Bay – Guanlei Bay China – Luangnamtah – Sob Hlauy Bay – Chiangkok Bay Laos – Mouang mum Bay Laos – Chiangsean Bay Chiangrai province Thailand. 3 Airway route: a. Start from Suvarnabhumi Airport - Chiangmai airport Thailand -Kunming Airport Yunnan China then go to Chiangrai province by bus.
The research tourist spots and behaviour of tourist in Maehongson province is the purpose to study behaviour of tourists and survey new tourist spots to support need of tourism and to know about the problems and the ways to develop tourism in Maehongson province. This study used the 1100 populations case study. That is Thais and foreigners by divided two parts : the behaviour of tourists and tourist spots in Maehongson province. The behaviour of tourists was studied 400 Thai tourists to visit in Maeahongson in September 2005 –May 2006 from Bangkok Chieng Mai Lampang Lampoon Surinth Tak Nan Phichit Phisanulok Khonkan Phrae Sukhothai Trad Chonburee Rayong Chumpon and Maehongson provinces 400 foreigner tourists from United States of America Netherland France Canada Germany England Australia Japan Norway Switzerland Belgium and Israel. The other that this study quested the opinions of 150 local people and 120 businessmen about behaviour of tourists who have lived in the tourist spots in districts of Maehongson province That is Maeng Khunyum Maelanoi Maesareang Sobmouy Pangmapha and Pai. ช The result of opinions tourists have needed to visit the nature place the life of community and the cultures of hill-tribes in Maehongson province . The Thai tourists like to interest the famous places and to buy the local products as handbags cloths sesame oil or sesame sweet-meat ect. The foreigner tourists like to interest the adventure tours in the nature places as rafting trekking and to buy the local products as handbags cloths and hill-tribe dolls ect. The result of research the right forms of tourism in Maehongson province is a akrotourism and culture tour and to develop as 1. to present the activities as mountain climbing rafting trekking or sports 2. to present the activities as the local traditional or seasonal activities of districts in Maehongson 3. to present the bustour to tour in Maehongson province from Chieng Mai – Pai – Pangmapha – Mauengmaehongson or Chieng Mai – Maesareang – Maelanoi –Khonyum- Mauengmaehongson 4. to develop the potential of population To survey new tourist spots to support need of tourism the researcher focused the area of the districts in Maehongson as Maeng : Baanthongmasan-Naplachad-Kahan-Huephue-Namon boardertrade and Bannumpheangdin the area have been the new spots sus as the cave the culture of Shan village the Clonglan waterfall and boardertrade Khunyum : Bantorphae-Banpratoomueang the Shan culture and bordertrade Maelanoi: Banmatho-Maela the hill-tribes culture Maesareang:Bansoahinthe Shan culture and bordertrade Sobmouy: Maengoa-Banomloa and BanMaesamlabthe waterfall the hill-tribe culture and bordertrade ซ Pangmapha:Bankuedsamseeb and Banmaisangnam-Thongsalae : abyss the Leesu culture and the cave The Srisophon cave Pai : Banmueangnoi-Huapai : the hill-tribes culture and the water fall Meuang The new tourist spot which should be the pilot place in to develop is the new tourist spot at Maeng : Baanthongmasan-Naplachad-Kahan-Huephue-Namon boardertrade these areas have been the new spots as the cave the culture of Shan village the Klonglan waterfall and bordertrade why Because these areas have the new place to singht seeing advaneger culture and bordertrade to The Mynmar country.
The purpose of the Artists Residence Excursion Arrangement and Management in Chiang Rai Province is to study and find out the pattern of excursion of artists residences in Chiang Rai which is considered to be a new issue in Thai society. The 11 artists residences and artist themselves are samples of this study. The study found that the tourism products of the artists residence excursion can be divided into 2 main categories. One is in form of tangible products that are the works of that artists media documents and training and workshop offering. The other form is intangible ones such as art appreciation and understanding and the inspiration of the artists themselves and their style of arts working. The research method of collecting data is using questionnaire to obtain data from tourists in Chiang Rai and group discussion and seminar participated by artists and people involving in cultural tourism was ducted. It is found that the existing and residing of artists in province of Chiang Rai is well aware and interests to tourists especially the excursion program of artists residents. It is notable that tourists perception of artists residence excursion is not different from other form of excursions which should be brought into concerns to people involved. The pattern of excursion according to the result of this research participating by artists and people involved can be summarized into 4 patterns of artists residence excursions as follow 1. Artists residence in particular areas 2. Artists residence excursion by artists skills or arts style 3. artists residence excursion with training and workshop conducting both in short and long period of time 4. artists residence excursion arranging as a festival or seasoning The final result and suggestion from the study is to set up the sequencing of excursion for tourists in order to finally add value to the artists residence excursion program and benefit both artists and tourists. The maximum value pressed on the excursion across on those 4 patterns of excursions.
The objectives of this research were to study quality of fresh beef and processed products which had marketing potential in Thailand. Three major beef types including natural grass grazing native Thai beef grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred and pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef aged between 2-3 years old as well as high blood Charolais cross-bred beef were studied. The research emphasized on studying and selecting appropriate beef cuts for each processed meat product development. The study was performed to show uniqueness and marketing potential of the developed meat products however it might not be a statistically designed experiment. This research consisted of 5 studies including 1 quality and shelf-life of fresh beef and high-moisture processed beef products; 2 quality and consumer acceptability of low-moisture beef products; 3 consumer acceptability of processed beef products produced by industry sectors; 4 consumer acceptability of processed beef products at purchasing points; and 5 development of semi-dried fermented beef product Nham. Results from the first study showed that during 7 days of simulated retailed display strip loin steaks from native Thai beef had the lowest L* most dark compared to those from grass and hay fed and pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef. The two Brahman cross-bred beef types had similar color lighness. However pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred steaks were more vivid higher C* in color than those from grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred and native Thai beef respectively. For display-life study total aerobic plate count TPC indicated that pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred steaks tended to spoil since the first day of display where they had been vacuum aged for 7 days. Steaks from native Thai and grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred beef tended to have TPC in an allowable level during vacuum aging and during 7 days of display. After 7 days of vacuum aging before displayed native Thai beef steaks had higher pH values than those from grass and hay fed and pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred steaks respectively. For quality of frankfurters native Thai beef frankfurters tended to have higher Warner-bratzler shear values than those made from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef. But no difference was found in springiness of frankfurters made from both beef types. Native Thai beef frankfurters tended to have longer shelf-life than those from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef especially when they were not storaged in vacuum bags. From consumer preference evaluation on crispness texture skin color taste and overall acceptability results indicated that consumers preferred native Thai beef frankfurters than those from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred. For meatball quality evaluation shelf-life of meatballs produced from native Thai beef appeared to have a longer shelf-life than those made from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef. For sensory quality both types of meatballs were rated similarly by consumers except for skin color which results indicated that native beef meatballs were darker than pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef meatballs. Beef hams produced from high blood Charolais cross-bred outside round muscles had the highest cooking yield and were most preferred by consumer panels. Results from the second study showed that restructured Thai Daddeaw jerky made from shoulder muscles of native Thai beef gave less yield than those made from Thai-French beef trimmings. Restructured Thai Daddeaw jerky made from shoulder muscles of native Thai beef had Aw of 0.84 and MPR of 0.51 whereas those made from Thai-French beef trimmings had Aw of 0.85 and MPR of 0.57 respectively. TPC and yeasts and mold count for native restructured jerky were 2.48 and <2.48 log CFUg respectively whereas XVIIthose from Thai-French beef trimmings were 2.48 and <1 log CFUg respectively. From sensory quality evaluation consumers preferred texture color flavor and overall quality of restructured jerky made from Thai-French beef trimmings than jerky made from native Thai beef shoulders. American style whole muscle jerky made from eye round muscles of native Thai beef tended to give higher yield than that made from grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred beef. For sensory evaluation consumers slightly liked jerky made from both beef types. Results from part three of the study showed that salami and pastrami produced from outside round muscles of native Thai grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred or pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef had no difference in sensory quality as evaluated by consumers. However color of salami made from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef tended to be more preferred because of the more vivid red color. For dry-cured ham in overall consumers preferred dry-cured ham produced from eye round muscles of native Thai beef than those made from pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred beef. In addition for production and marketing potential study local Thai meat products such as shredded dried beef Nua Yong sliced crispy dried beef and sweetened dried beef Nua Sawun were developed by S. Khonkaen Food Industry Public Company Limited and sensory evaluated by consumer panels. Results showed that shredded dried beef could be successfully produced by using native Thai beef as raw materials because it contained strong muscle fibers. Charolais cross-bred beef was not easily be shredded and therefore was not a good raw material for producing shredded dried beef. Indicating by consumer evaluation it was good for producing sliced crispy dried beef and sweetened dried beef. Results from the fourth part of the study which consumer acceptability was evaluated at the purchasing points showed that beef ham made from both types of finished cattle were more preferred. The fifth part of this research focused on producing Nham by using raw materials from 3 beef types as follows: grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross-bred or native Thai beef. Naturally fermenting beef Nham produced without starter culture or with P. pentosaceus TISTR 536 the probiotic with bacteriocin pediocin PA-1 producing potential strain were studied. During 3 days of fermentation it was found that either refrigerated or frozen raw beef materials were appropriated for Nham production. Nham produced with P. pentosaceus TISTR 536 had lower pH and higher percentages of lactic acid than that produced without starter culture. Sensory evaluation on color odor taste texture and overall acceptability by 30 consumers who liked to eat Nham indicated that Nham produced from frozen grass and hay fed Brahman cross-bred beef was more preferred than Nham made from the refrigerated one pineapple-byproduct fed Brahman cross bred and native Thai beef respectively. Furthermore the study showed that when using frozen native Thai beef as raw materials consumers preferred Nham produced with starter culture to that produced without starter culture. Moreover using P. pentosaceus TISTR 536 as starter culture resulted in good quality product and increased product safety by reducing the risk of salmonella which might contaminate raw beef materials prior to Nham fermentation.
The purpose of this study based on the combination of the qualitative and quantitative researches was to investigate the potentialities of local food restaurants and types of local food restaurants for tourist services in Chiang Rai Province. The 400 respondents selected by the accidental sampling technique were divided in according to the proportion of local food restaurants in each district. The research instruments drawn for this study were panel discussions a survey questionnaire regarding local food restaurants a ratio scale-based questionnaire literature reviews and an in – depth interview questionnaire carried out with 30 foreign tourists. The data were systematically analyzed by percentage and mean ; were then presented by the narrative technique. In addition to the survey on local food restaurants located in all the 16 districts and in 2 sub-districts it stated that 78 local food restaurants found in Chiang Rai province were divided into 4 types: 10 small sized- local food restaurants 52 medium sized- local food restaurants 15 large sized- local food restaurants and 1 Khan Tok Dinner style- based local food restaurant. Both the small and medium sized- local food restaurants were not officially certified by other governmental organizations; otherwise the well-preparation and potentialities of local food restaurants served for tourists requirements remained ineffective the well-preparation and potentialities of both the large sized- local food restaurants and Khan Tok Dinner-based local food restaurants were facilitated for the tourists requirements. ฌ All the aspects of the potentialities and well-preparation of local food restaurants accepted by the consumers the presentation of local food and special menus were at a higher to the highest level the restaurants customer services the features of local food the qualities of raw materials used for cooking local food the restaurants kitchenware were also at a higher to the highest level. In general the Thai and foreign tourists opinions towards the features of required local food were at a moderate level; otherwise the foreign tourists local food requirements based on healthy food local vegetables mixed- ingredients Lanna northern identity-based tastes. Also the Thai tourists opinions towards the adaptation of local food tastes and local utilization of vegetable mixed- ingredients were at a higher to the highest level As all the aspects of the tourists opinions towards the required features of the Thai and foreign tourists local food restaurants were at a moderate level the foreign tourists requirements on the availabilities of local food restaurants and the Thai tourists requirements on well-known local food restaurants were mostly preferred. Moreover in terms of the minced meat salads curry soups and toasted meat the foreign tourists local food preferences were at a highest level. On the other hands the Thai tourists local food preferences food were at a moderate level. Overall the foreign tourists preferences towards local food restaurants with a moderate level On the contrary the Thai tourists preferences towards local food restaurants with a higher to the highest level As for the on-going strategies for the enhancement and development of local food restaurants served for the foreign tourists requirements it stated that the provisions for the enhancement of Chiang Rai provinces local food identity English written local food menus and its detailed description Where as for the Thai tourists requirements it stated that the provisions for the enhancement of the restaurants maps and its restaurant location the restaurants local food served- first impressions dissemination of local food restaurant location outstanding features of local food and ways of consumption
The main objective of this research is to study the potential problems and obstacles communities needs of tourism planning and management in order to introduce the suitable tourism planning and management model or framework for Chiang Rai province. All three sampling communities consisted of Baan Hua Wiang Baan Pa Hung and Baan Phya Lao-U in Wiang district Paan district and Toaung district the representatives of high medium and low potentiality communities accordingly. The method of this research were quantitative and some qualitative the data were collected through questionnaires in-depth interview and group discussion and describe the result by rating scale combined with the content analysis. The results of this study were as follows: 1 Potentiality of Tourism Planning and Management of Local Communities in Chiang Rai Province - Potentiality of the community in all three sampling communities is the involvement in culture tradition and community environment preservation for tourism. For donation for tourism activities is in the same for both Baan Hua Wiang and Baan Pa Hung. Treating and dividing community-based tourism benefit is different but yet the same in two aforementioned communities. Baan Pa Hung and Baan Phya Lao-U have slightly different in involvement. These two sampling communities do not involve in tourism problem solving with community meeting. The same is also applied with government aids. ฑ 2 Communitys problems and obstacles in Tourism Planning and Management of Local Communities - From the total average value there is the least amount of problem in communitys physical problems and obstacles in tourism planning and management. Highly proud of rural culture and living is in Baan Phya Lao-U which is in the opposite for Baan Hua Wiang that has problem with the government. On the other hands the relationship with individual communitys leader and family is good in Baan Hua Wiang. Most of potentiality sampling community understand the definition of tourism even though still misunderstand in many aspects of tourism. 3 Communitys needs in Tourism Planning and Management - All three sampling community has high level of needs in tourism planning and management. Ban Pa Hung needs the most in tourism planning and management. Consequently all potentiality areas need tourism planning and management in the following areas: corporate in tourism operation and practice collaborate in brainstorming and solving the problem sharing the benefit in tourism and collaborate in following and evaluating the result. 4 Suggestion in Tourism Planning and Management framework for Chiang Rai Province - Three frameworks of tourism planning are introduced for different level of potentiality sampling communities. First is for Baan Hua Wiang– collaboration between local administrative organizations and community. Second framework is for Baan Pa Hung – corporation between community public and private sectors. Third framework is for Baan Phya Lao-U – corporation between community and government. Tourism Village Committees and Advisory Committees will need to be involved in all frameworks to collaborate among each sector.
This study aimed to investigate socio-cultural impacts of tourism development in Chiangrai province Thailand. To achieve the objective of the study the related issues were examined including the current situation of tourism roles of stakeholders visitors opinions on tourism management and local communities views toward socio-cultural impacts of tourism development. The methodologies adopted for data collection were: semi-structured interviews participatory rural appraisal and focus groups with local residents and other stakeholders; participant observation; and self-completion visitor surveys. Descriptive statistics was used for content analysis and Statistic Package of Social Science SPSS was employed for data analysis of visitor survey. Three case studies were selected based on visitors numbers per year from high medium and low levels as follow: Ban Hard Krai in Chiang Khong District; Ban Santakiri in Mae Fah Luang District and; Ban Raj-Pakdee in Thueng District. The findings revealed that tourism had caused both positive and negative impacts on the host communities. It was on one hand perceived as a contributor to the locals income generation and distribution and indirectly helped to increase more ฏeducation opportunities for the locals. But on the other hand it caused negative impacts on socio-culture of the host communities which in the locals views was not important in comparison with the economic benefit gains. Tourism situation in Chiangrai province was determined as the tourism that responses to the visitors demand and being operated based on the natural and cultural resources in the destinations. The study also revealed a lack of local participation in all stages of tourism development as well as cooperation amongst stakeholders in tourism development processes. In addition tourism potentials seemed to be decreased due to the deterioration of tourism resources lack of budget and uncontinuously policy of involved stakeholders and its implementation. From visitors point of view in addition to an improvement in quality of destinations tourists recreation opportunities and tourist activities should be created to attract more visitors. The study also indicated that social and cultural aspects of the host communities were the most interesting attractions that need to be conserved. Most visitors were unsatisfied with the situation that they were taken economically advantages and dishonest behavior of the people in service sector. The study suggested that due to the socio-economic development plans of the country tourism may not be concluded as an agent of socio-cultural changes in the host destinations. Promotion of people participation in tourism development process education on sustainable tourism management development with recognition of local context fair income distribution among stakeholders and empowerment of local communities were essential issues that need to be concentrated in development of tourism in order to mitigate or prevent negative impacts of tourism development.
The research The Efficiency of Land Transportation in Chiang-Rai Province aims to study problems of the mass transportation system of Chiang Rai as well as to investigate the pattern and the system of transportation that will efficiently support tourism industry in the province. The questionnaire method was used to gather data from 430 respondents who are Thai and foreign tourists the transportation providers in Muang District Mae Sai District and Chiang Saen District. In addition the method of interviewing was also used to collect data from 15 government offices and in-charge- people in those areas. The researchs findings point out that the land transportation in Chiang-Rai Province has some service problems. Among these problems some of them need to be solved urgently such as the poor condition and the insufficiency of buses and facilities the staff s service quality the traffic congestion within the bus stations and the non-standardized fare rate. The questionnaires results also show the respondents suggestions in improving those problems including slightly raising the fare rate to make the service better. As for the transportation systems efficiency and appropriateness in supporting the provinces tourism it is found that Thai and foreign tourists and residents of those three districts think that both aspects are in average level. On the contrary the transportation service providers view that the system has a high level of efficiency and a high level in appropriateness in assisting the growth of tourism. Finally it is interesting that there is a gap between the customers expectation on the service quality and their ซperceived quality. Thai is most of them have a high to a very high level of the expectation while they get only average level of the service.
A Survey and Model of Water Route Tourism Management for Firefly Visiting in Samutsongkram Province. Investigators : Rattanaruk P Sopha C Sanguansup P Nilsook P. Huachiewchalermprakiet University Suan Dusit Rajabhat University Rajamangala University of Technology Thanyaburi Samutsongkram Technical College. E-mail Address : Papoon58@yahoo.com malisa_th@yahoo.com J_panita@yahoo.com prachyanun@hotmail.com . Project Duration : 1 SEPTEMBER 2005 – 29 DECEMBER 2006 This study of the Water Route Tourism Management for Firefly Visiting Modelparticipation of entrepreneursthe local people in the area and the tourists found that : 1. The level participationsatification of the tourism entrepreneurs the people in the local area and the tourists towards the Tourism Management For Firefly in Samutsongkram Province is high. 2. The potential level of tourism entrepreneurs in the Water Route Tourism Management For Firefly Visiting in Samutsongkram Model is good. Considering each criteria it is found that the potential level of goods Food Production Local- Made goodsTourism Program and Tourism services is high. On the contrary the sturdiness of the community people is good as well. 3. The level satification and participation of the people in local area towards the Tourism Management For Firefly Visiting in Samutsongkram is high. 4. The result of the potential level of the people in running the Water Route Tourism Management For Firefly in Samutsongkram Province is good. Considering each criteriait is ซ found that the potential level of goods section is high and the sturdiness of the community people is moderate. 5. The level participation satification of the tourists behavior in the Water Route Tourism Management For Firefly Visiting in Samutsongkram Province is high. 6. The level satification towards the Water Route Tourism Management For Firefly in Samutsongkram Province is good. Considering each criteria it is found that found the Tourist Places Services and the Environmental Management is good. 7. The Model of Suitable Boat using for Firefly visiting in Samutsongkram Province is the tourist satisfied the model of boat using in people daily life. The People in tourist places using that boat for travellingagriculture transportation. The Firefly Visiting is activity for more income and the new boat preparing for Firefly Visiting are less number.
Objective The purpose of this study was to find some suitable guidelines for the management of the museums archeological sites and monasteries in 3 provinces namely Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi and some guidelines to improve the quality of personnel in the cultural field by setting up a strategic plan to seek a co-operation from the local and provincial administrations in order to turn these areas into sustainable Thai cultural tourist destinations. Method The researchers studied the basic information about the museums archeological sties and monasteries in 3 provinces Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi in the documents and had meetings with cultural experts to set up the guidelines of the study. Then they observed and interviewed some tourists who are interested in museums archeological sites and monasteries following the guidelines. And they collected the information and analyzed it to find the concept of management. ฐConclusion There are at least two strategic plans to propose for the management of the museums archeological sites and monasteries to improve them into sustainable tourist sites in Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi. The first is the strategic plan for the personnel and operations development and the second is the strategic plan for the integration of the management units. The management of museums archeological sites and monasteries in Phuket Phang-Nga and Krabi should be as follows: Museums: The suitable ways to improve the museums should start with the development of the uniqueness of the building a well-organized and beautiful surroundings and clean toilets with some cloth for tourists to dry their hands and some chairs for them to sit. The staff should be able to speak English have a good personality and good knowledge of the things displayed around the sites. And in view of competitiveness the performances should be live with English sub-title and a chance to invite the audience to participate. They should have more advertisements and activities that the local communities and administrations can join. Archeological sites: The office and exhibition area should be separated in different buildings. There should be some clean toilets a policeman or security guard to take care of the tourists and to coordinate with upper-ranking officers. The surrounding should be improved so the different areas can clearly be separated from one another. The sites should change into a learning centre for the communities to allow them to share their ideas and preserve the sites. This way the communities will feel more important and would like to take care of their own heritage. Monasteries: The surroundings should be clean and look nice. There should be enough car parking areas and clean toilets. There shouldnt be any stray cats and dogs around. The places should have an atmosphere of a place to take a rest and a place to pray with a Buddha image to help people to focus. The monks should look clean and ฑbehave in a suitable manner. There should be a different place for each different activity and a document to advise what language tourist should use when talking to a monk. Moreover the administration should assign a person to do a public relations works and to organize some activities to allow the communities to participate. A website should be developed to give information about the monasteries.
Currently there are research studies that demonstrate the usage of integrated technologies for archaeological studies that made new discoveries around the world. In addition Geo-informatics technology is utilized in the cultural heritage conservation reservation management and research studies in various cases. For example remote sensing and GIS was utilized as tools for archaeological analysis together with conventional archaeological analysis methods. There are various cases around the world that remote sensing and GIS was used to assist archaeologists to pin point and help to identify archaeological sites. For example the discovery of the city of Ubar in Sahara desert from the analysis of remote sensing data ground data and field survey data or the case of missing China wall that was buried under the ground by analyzing SIR C radar data from space shuttle. From the study of these samples we had come up with the concept of integrated studies for archaeological study in Thailand and nearby countries. In this project the archaeological knowledge anthropological knowledge together with geo-informatics technology information technology and geo-physic technology were utilized for the study to identify and pin point the ancient road from Angkor to Phimai that was mentioned in the inscription by the Jayavarman VII the great king of Cambodia. From archaeological and historical studies we had learnt that during his period the Khmer empire was expanded to cover most of the area of the Southeast Asia. In this project we study the detailed of this ancient road its utilization the people who lived and used this ancient road the ancient industries along this ancient road and the culture that had disappeared and the one that has been continue to flourish along the royal road until today. The most advance technologies were applied in the field of remote sensing GIS archaeology anthropology geo-physics. The information systems were developed to gather all information from this study for the scholars to use. In addition the data that was developed from this project can be further utilized by the other related works in the fields of land use planning related to cultural management tourism etc. From the studies of this research project we had discovered evident about the ancient road along this ancient road. The most important items are as follow: 1. Two missing Dharmashalas chapel of rest house ix 2. Ancient laterite bridges along the ancient road in Cambodia side 3. Ancient industry sites along the ancient road in Cambodia and Thailand sides 4. Ancient communities along the ancient road in Cambodia and Thailand sides We had also developed the information servers to contain all the information from this research project that any scholars can access the information from our research projects. In addition we had developed 3D models of Dharmashala chapel of rest house Arogyashalas chapel of hospitals and ancient bridges that will be utilized in the simulation of ancient life along this ancient road. This simulation will be used as a learning tool for younger generation in the near future.
Lamphun is a small peaceful town with all three components of tourism namely tourist attractiveness facilities services and access to the tourist places. However at present Lamphun has had only a small number of tourists. Tourists merely pass through the town for the most part although research results show that Lamphun has a few strong points in being an ancient city as much as 1300 years old and some natural and man-made tourist attractions particularly those related to history archeology Buddhist temples and interesting artifacts and architecture. The local people consist of many ethnic groups resulting in a diversity of art and culture. The climate is good for visitors all year round. However there are a few things that the province lacks such as a linking system for integrated tourism information search related to the history of the tourist attractions knowledge and attitude building as well as a clear understanding about tourism including a host to take action in a systematic linkage of the tourism attractions and pro-active tourism marketing together with efficient publicity. In conclusion the recommendations for tourism development in the province are to make it a historical and cultural tourist town with all kinds of historical places and objects as well as religion to boost the tourism selling points different from those of Chiang Mai. There should be a correct tourism database that is up-to-date to be used for publicizing the provinces tourism. The image of Lamphun should be adjusted from being an industrial estate to that of being a hub of history art and culture and sustainable tourism. Tourism related personnel should be trained and revision needs to be made in zoning. Regulations and rules that will enhance tourism need to be made while funds need to be allocated in preserving the cultural heritage and creating love and pride for the local art and culture. All of these will greatly add to selling points for tourism in the area.
This study aims to seek out the guidelines in developing the marketing for OTOP Products toward tourism industry in Chiang Rai Province. This study indicates a qualitative study using questionnaires in-depth interview on the basis of stratified random sampling method in collecting data. The samplings of this study are composed of 100 Key informants and 415 entrepreneurs. The descriptive analysis is used as an analytical tool in this study. Research findings are summarized as follows: 1. There are totally 811 OTOP Products are being traded in Chiang Rai Province 2. The determination of pricing is based on the net cost of each OTOP product 3. Places for distribution OTOP products are the community shops 4. The promotion is done by personal selling or the members in the community and participating in the trade shows 5. The problems for most entrepreneurs indicate the use of insufficient capital and the products distribution and 6. Both Thais and foreign buyers satisfied with the OTOP products but they found the difficulty in finding the place to purchase the OTOP products. This research is beneficial to the end user in two aspects as follows: 1. The finding of this research can be applied for the academic lessons and determine as for developing the marketing of OTOP products toward tourism industry in Chiang Rai Province.
The project was aimed to develop an appropriate method to make mangosteen puree and prolong its storage life to ensure that it can maintain its nutritious benefits. Development of mangosteen powder from mangosteen puree and from pericarp crude extracts was also studied. It was founded that mangosteen puree made from entire normal flesh normal flesh: translucent and gummosis flesh at 1:1 and entire translucent and gummosis flesh with a mixture of 5 to 9% pericarp crude extract was consumer acceptance. The antioxidant of newly produced puree varied from 4.49 to 6.3 TEAC µmole Troloxml depending upon proportion of pericarp crude extract. Mangosteen puree could be kept in sealed brown or green glass bottle at 4 degrees Celsius for 5 months with acceptable microbiological chemical and physical quality to make further healthy products. Moreover it would cost less electricity charge than -20 degrees Celsius. The inlet and outlet temperatures at 155 and 85+1 degrees Celsius respectively and JCM Model SDE10 E-10 with rotary atomizer and nozzle spray dryer were used to produce powder from mangosteen puree and pericarp crude extract. Mangosteen puree had to be diluted with water 1:1 then mixed with 10% maltodextrin by weight before sprayed dry. Plain crude extract from pericarp or a mixture with 5 10 and 20% maltodextrin by weight was suitable to make powder. Powder from entire pericarp crude extract 1 g contained 6.36 mg α-mangostin one of effective xanthones from mangosteen. Both mangosteen powder from puree and pericarp crude extract could be kept in an aluminium sachet at room temperature for 8 months. The chemical and physical properties and antioxidant value were still accepted for making other healthy products.
The collaborative management of invasive rice weedy rice in the rice fields of farmers in Lumpaya Banglane district Nakhon Pathom provice was divided into three stages as follows: Stage 1 the problem of the target area was analyzed based on its fundamental data of rice cultivation. From this it was found that the farmers obtained their rice seeds through purchasing from the neighboring shops and fellow farmers as well as through self-storage at the rate of 80.25% 17.28% and 2.50% respectively. As for rice cultivation the farmers eradicated weedy rice by means of plowing the seed bank. Stage 2 in order to increase knowledge about the problem brainstorming was employed to seek for means to eradicate the weedy rice. Accordingly preliminary examination of the problem was performed through on-stage brainstorming study visits to Pathum Thani Rice Research Center to observe rice cultivation and exchanging ideas among farmers and reserchers. The conclusion was that high quality rice seeds from the rice research center should be used in four different experimental conditions i.e. 1 mechanical control plowing the land twice plus hand pulling or panicle removal of weedy rice 2 and 3 Chemical control : 10-11 days after sowing rice i.e. butachlor24-D Thiobencarb 5% + 2 4-D 2% Gr or oxadiargyl 40% SC. in water flooded seed bed with the control over water to remain steady for 10 days and 4 using some cloth dipped in glufosinate ammonium to apply onto the leaves of the weedy rice while they were at the panicle stage. After the experiment it was found that the controlling and the applying of weedy rice leaves with Glufosinate ammonium provided the best result. To clarify the weedy rice increased from zero and five percent while the field that used Thiobencarb 5% + 2 4-D 2% Gr was covered with more weedy rice. Besides since the rice ground was not smooth the utilization of herbicide was not very successful. Stage 3 the results from the second stage was repeatedly examined by selecting the best means of weedy rice management for further experiment. That is the farmers plowed the field to damage the land twice and then sowed it with clean seeds. After that two means of weedy rice eradication were compared i.e. using hand pulling and using herbicide glufosinate ammonium to apply onto the weedy rice leaves. The results showed that after plowing to eradicate the land twice most rice fields had less weedy rice 20-30 percent. In regard to the yields there was no difference between the two means of weedy rice eradication 535 -991 kilogram per rai.
This research was conducted to examine local materials producing natural colors in dyeing cotton textile and dyeing techniques and methods in producing Juan Tani Ikat textiles. The research methodology consisted of color extraction from 12 types of local plants and the cotton textile dyeing experiments. The research discovered different colors extracted from dozen types of local plants including reddish brown from the barks of Rhizophora apiculata Kongkang Bailek and Casuarina equisetifolia Sonthale; brown from the barks of Eugenia grata Wight Samedchun and Cashewnut trees; cream light brown and dark brownish yellow from the barks of Pithecolobium dulce Makhamtet; yellow from the fresh branch of Garcinia dulcis kurz Ma Pood; cream light greenish yellow and brownish yellow from the bark of Oroxylum indicum L. Kurz Pheka and cream greenish yellow and brownish yellow from its leave; light yellow and dark brownish yellow from the leaves of Terminalia catappa L. Hu Kuang and Melaleuca cajuputi Powell Samed Khaw; black from the leave of Kura Kura; red and purple from the bark of Caesalalpinia sappan linn Fang and blue from the leave and stalk of Indigofera tinctoria Kram. As for techniques in color extraction and cotton dyeing the study found that the dyeing mixture between the fresh branch of Garcinia dulcis kurz Ma Pood and alum or lime water or alkaline water mordant produced the most beautiful yellow cotton textile. The use of Rhizophora apiculata or Kongkang Baileks bark shellac and alum mordant created the most beautiful red cotton textile. The most outstanding black cotton textile was from the dyeing mixture between the leave of Kura and groundwater mordant. The best purple shade cotton textile was from the bark of Caesalalpinia sappan linn Fang dyed with copper sulfate. With Kram water preparation process leave and stalk of Indigofera tinctoria Kram gave the best blue cotton textile.
Celadon wares in Chiangmai is made of traditional wood ash glaze. The characteristic of the glaze is thickglassy-green and crazing. But the standard of tablewares approved by Thai Industrial Standard the glaze of tableware pieces must not cracks for proper cleaning. Study of factors influence on Celadon glaze cracking to improve the glaze or stop the cracking on Celadon glaze. We try to put 11 kinds of ceramic raw materials in to Celadon glaze from 5%-30%. We found out that the clay from the surface of the rice field about 10% can stop the glaze from cracking and the colour of the glaze did not change much. But if we put potashfeldspar into Celadon glaze from 5%-30%. The glaze developed more cracks which start from bigger cracks to medium cracks and very fine cracks.
This project studied about matting effects and running effects of Celadon – glaze of Thai Celadon Company Chiangmai. These new effects of Celadon - glaze could develop new design on Celadon – ware which could improve the marketing section. On the running effects we experimented by putting 5% - 30% of fluxing materials into Celadon – glaze which fired at 1250๐C RF. The best fluxing material was frit that gave a very glassy running glaze. Two colouring oxides were developed to paint on the running glaze. After firing colours were dripping down to get nice patterns on Celadon – glaze. The Thai Celadon Company would like to put this glaze inside the bowl for a new design. On the matting effects of Celadon – glaze we studied from the research of Theerapong Chaiaei project in the year 2005. He used white burning clays sprayed on Celadon – glaze to get the matting effects but the surface get blistering because the white clay as very refractory. The new experiment we try to put 10% - 30% of Celadon – glaze into the white clay to make a better result. The best composition we found was 20% of Celadon – glaze with 80% of white clay can make good matting effects without peeling or blistering
The aim of this research is to functionalize acrylate group onto natural rubber molecule in order to improve the reactivity of the rubber molecule for photocrosslinking. Natural rubber latex was firstly epoxidized then oxidized by periodic acid at room temperature giving rise to the low molecular weight natural rubber latex. The low molecular weight natural rubber latex was then being acrylate modified with acrylic acid at 50 oC. The acrylated epoxidized natural rubber latex was then radiated with UV of the wavelength 256 nanometer for 30 minutes. Darocure 1173 was used as photoinitiator in the photocrosslinking process. The crosslinked film was characterized using FT-IR and dissolved in toluene. It was found that the extent of crosslinking was increased as the amount of photoinitiator added was increased.
In this work we improved the efficiency of rubber chips in order to treat phenol–contaminated water. The experiment was divided into two parts using batch system and adsorption columns. Kinetics and equilibrium of adsorption were investigated in batch test. The rubber chips of size 0.5 x 0.5 cm2 and 1.0 x1.0 cm2 were compared and proved with kinetic models. It was found that the smaller chips had higher rate of adsorption and followed the first order kinetic model so the chips of size 0.5 x 0.5 cm2 were used throughout the rest of the experiment. In order to increase effective surface area of the chips they were subsequently treated with either nitric acid and heated at 150 oC and 800 mbar or treated with sulfuric acid and heated at the same temperature and pressure. It was found that the adsorption capacity was most improved for nitric-treated chips which is more than sulfuric-treated and untreated chips respectively. For dynamic adsorption mini-column packed with gravels and chips were used. The comparison was made for nitric-treated and untreated chips and the flow rate of the phenol solution was varied to be 4.5 mlmin and 10 mlmin. The results showed that treated chips could remove phenol better than the untreated chips and the removal of phenol at higher flow rate was more efficient. When connecting one more column and using the same flow rate of 4.5 mlmin as for the single column the removal efficiency did not improve. The adsorption of phenol in the column did not follow the typical breakthrough curve but showed the non-permanent attraction between phenol and rubber chips so chips could be used to retard the flow of the phenol.
This research aims to study the development and information about Home Stay in South – Northeastern Region to study of the needs of youth tourists in home stay promotion strategy to suggest the strategies for home stays promotion and to purpose the strategy for supporting and linking for sustainable tourism between Thai and neighbours countries It has been found that the problem of home stay promotion strategy in Sotheastern Isan are; local community lacks of understanding and awareness in promotion strategy lacks of writing and speaking skills in Central Thai and foreign languages lacks of budgets the government staff also lacks of understanding and awareness in promotion strategy no specific central unique to support about home stay promotion and not many research in home stay promotion and youth tourists also lacks of understanding about home stay and how to stay with local people without negative impacts. So Lower - Northeastern Thailand Region home stay should have the promotion strategy for sustainable tourism as follows: 1. The strategy of establishing the unique centre for supporting home stays promotion. ญ2. The strategy of developing home stay in knowledge and awareness of promotion. 3. The strategy of developing information system management in home stay promotion for local community and tourist. 4. The strategy of encouraging home stay to local school.
Masterbatch of carbon black and oil of natural rubber can prepare from latex state by use field latex using. The result announced that the carbon black content can be added to 75 phr and oil content can be add to 12 phr which does not disturb the stability of the latex and its coagulation. The 35% formic acid concentration and 5 minute can completely coagulate the oil and field latex mixing the formic acid can coagulate the mixing of carbon black and field latex better than the calcium chloride solution that are the concentration of formic acid less than the concentration of calcium chloride solution and yield the shorter coagulation time. The carbon black masterbatch which coagulated by formic acid yield the scorch time vulcanization time modulus tensile strength and elongation at break better than calcium chloride solution using. For the mooney viscosity vulcanization time modulus and tensile strength the rubber compound from the dry state carbon black masterbatch higher than the latex state carbon black masterbatch. Although the difference torque and scorch time are closed. When the carbon black content increased the scorch time and cure time decrease. This effect can be observed in both state preparing. However the tensile strength modulus increase with carbon black content increase to 60 phr then they decrease. The scorch time and cure time from the latex state masterbatch and the dry state masterbatch are very close. The rubber compound from the latex state masterbatch yields the difference torque modulus and tensile strength higher than from the dry state masterbatch. However the rubber compound from the latex state masterbatch can get the elongation at break better than the dry state masterbatch. This research announced that the masterbatch preparation from latex state is the choice of natural rubber process which makes the new rubber raw material.
At the moment adhesive mostly used in rubber wood furniture industry is urea- formaldehyde which is amino resin polymer. It is made from condensation reaction between urea and formaldehyde. This adhesive has good adhesion but it is harmful for user because formaldehyde is poison and causes the irritation. For the safety of rubber wood furniture user and for the benefit of the owner of rubber wood plantation in the south of Thailand the adhesive prepared from rubber latex is developed in the form of epoxidized natural rubber ENR and it is a water-based adhesive. ENR was prepared by epoxidation reaction of 20% DRC rubber latex with the performic acid at 50°C. It was found that the amount of epoxide groups in the natural rubber molecules increased upon time. In addition Tg of ENR increased as the amount of epoxide groups increased. The optimum epoxidation for using as the adhesive is about 44% with 6 hours of the reaction time. By using FT-IR spectroscopy C-O-C on molecule of amylose and amylopectin was found for the adhesive mixed with gelatinized sticky rice flour. Furthermore the benzene ring on molecule of coumarone resin was observed and C=O was formed for the adhesive mixed with coumarone emulsion. Rubber adhesive mixed with coumarone emulsion was coagulated when pH was lower than 8.6 but if pH above 8.6 it was a sticky liquid. Dry rubber content viscosity and density values of all rubber adhesives prepared in this research were in the range of Thai Industrial Standard 521-2527. However pH was higher than value in Thai Industrial Standard 181-2530. Rubber adhesive mixed with coumarone emulsion showed higher shear strength followed by rubber adhesive mixed with gelatinized sticky rice flour and coumarone emulsion and rubber adhesive mixed with gelatinized sticky rice flour respectively. 9Besides shear strength of rubber adhesive increased with increasing the amount of coumarone emulsion. Rubber adhesive having 8 phr of coumarone emulsion gave the best properties. It had shear strength tension parallel to grain and modulus of rupture MOR of 5.08x106 Nm2 28.40x106 Nm2 and 20.21x106 Nm2 respectively. Nevertheless these properties are lower than those of TOA and UF.
Concrete Incorporating Metakaolin and Fly Ash for Repair Associate Professor Suvimol Sujjavanich Ph.D. Associate Professor Trakool Aramraks Ph.D. Mr.Wutikorn Malee Department of Civil Engineering. Kasetsart University The aim of this research is to obtain the basic information for improvement of concrete properties for repair work. The investigated properties were workability strength development and durability of concrete and mortar. In this study the Metakaolin MK incorporating Fly Ash FA as total percentage replacements of 20 by weight for Portland cement PC was constant and the ratio of MK to FA varied for 5 levels ; 20:0 15:5 10:10 5:15 and 0:20. The result indicated that the significant reduction in workability was found from the mixture contained only MK. The incorporating FA enabled to compensate loss in workability. It was confirmed that MK affected the early-age strength development at the first 7 days whereas incorporated FA influenced later-age strength gained. The ratio of MK to FA of 10:10 appeared to optimize strength development and also shown the highest compressive strength at 91 days. Concerning durability which was one key factor for repair work the incorporating MK and FA increased the abrasion resistance decreased chloride permeability and corrosion risk of reinforcing steel significantly. This research shown that using MK incorporating FA could enhance and compensate deficit properties of this two pozzolan materials provide the potential for further development for the use in repair work.
In this research a high belite cement is synthesized by using industrial by-products as starting materials. There are two pathways; firing so called clinkerization and hydrothermal processes used for the synthesis. Clinkerization process; the studied parameters are firing temperature heating rate cooling rate and types of mineralizer. The clinkers are investigated in term of phase composition. As a result the clinkers mostly consist of larnite and gehlenite phases and compressive strength at 28 days and 45 days of belite rich cement mortar are 16.15 and 18.90 kgcm2 respectively. Hydrothermal process; the synthesis is studied by using different alkali concentrations and different temperatures of calcination. The calcined phases are investigated in terms of phase composition and microstructure. The hydrothermal products are katoite and afterwards transformed into belite cement by calcination. The compressive strength at 28 days of belite rich cement mortar giving a 49-93 kgcm2.
The seismic capacity of a three–fifth scaled bonded post–tensioned PT interior slab–column connection model with drop panel was experimentally assessed. The model was intended to represent an improved design of typical slab–column connections without drop panel in Thailand. A quasi–static reversed cyclic loading test was carried out to the model up to failure. The effect of incorporating drop panel in the PT slab–column region on its seismic performance was identified by comparing the test results with those of a connection model without drop panel which was previously tested. The experimental results show that the connection with drop panel was able to undergo up to 6% drift prior to punching shear. Compared to the connection without drop panel the connection with drop panel has remarkably demonstrated drift capacity approximately three times as much. In addition the normalized energy dissipation capacity of the connection with drop panel was significantly larger than that of the connection without drop panel by more than 300%. The test results of this study will provide valuable information to develop guidelines for future seismic design of new flat plate buildings.
In this study compressive strength chloride penetration profile steel corrosion and water permeability of concrete containing fly ash from NPS and Mae Moh power plants under sea water were investigated. Fly ash obtained from NPS was ground to have particles retained on sieve No. 325 of 2.0% and then was used as a partial replacement of Portland cement type I at 0 15 25 35 and 50% by weight of binder. Water to binder ratios WB of concrete were varied as 0.45 0.55 and 0.65. The 200-mm concrete cube specimens with steel bar of 12-mm in diameter and 50-mm in length embedded at the cover depth of 10 20 50 and 75 mm were cast. Concrete specimens were cured in fresh water for 28 days and then they were placed to expose to tidal zone of sea water. The specimens were tested for compressive strength chloride penetration profile and steel corrosion at ages of 180 and 365 days of exposure in sea water. In addition water permeability of concrete specimens was also investigated at 365 days exposure in sea water. For Mae Moh fly ash concrete Portland cement type I and V were used to cast concrete. Original and classified fly ashes were used to replace Portland cement type I at 0 15 25 35 and 50% by weight of binder. Water to binder ratios were varied as 0.45 0.55 and 0.65. The specimen preparation is similar to that of NPS fly ash concrete. These specimens were prepared from previous research. After the concretes were exposed to tidal zone for 4 and 5 years the compressive strength chloride penetration profile and steel corrosion were investigated. In addition water permeability of concrete was also tested at 5-year exposure in sea water. The results showed that the compressive strength of NPS fly ash concrete tended to increase up to the age of 180 days and it slightly decreased during 180 to 365-day exposure in sea water. Fly ash concrete was better resistant to chloride ingress than that of concrete without fly ash and the increase in fly ash replacement could reduce the chloride ingress into concrete. The rusty of embedded steel bar was not found in all fly ash concretes but it slightly occurred at cover depths of 10 and 20 mm in concrete without fly ash. The higher is the chloride content in concrete the higher is the corroded of steel bar. งFor Mae Moh fly ash concrete the results showed the same trend with NPS fly ash concrete that the increase of replacement and fineness of fly ash in concrete could reduce the chloride penetration profile and corrosion of embedded steel bar. Besides the concrete with Portland cement type I tended to have lower chloride penetration profile than that of Portland cement type V. Moreover the compressive strength of concretes with Portland cement type I and V decreased while those of fly ash concretes increased at 5-year exposure in sea water.
Cement industry has been participated in the waste management by using different kinds of industrial wastes as alternative fuel or raw materials in manufacturing process. In this work cadmium was introduced into the raw material with the variation of initial concentrations of CdO ranging from 0.1-2.0% by weight. The clinker characteristics were analyzed by X-ray diffractionXRD and scanning electron microscopeSEM with energy dispersive X-ray spectrometerEDS. Results showed that cadmium inhibited the formation of C3S and C2S which are the major phases of clinker. The new compounds of cadmium as CdSO3 and CdAl2O4 were identified in the composition of clinker. It was found that cadmium affected on the clinker properties by decreasing the compressive strengths. In the study of cadmium leaching behavior using Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure TestUS.EPA cement mortars doped with cadmium up to 2.0% by weight was not classified as hazardous waste as the concentration of cadmium leached from the mortar was 0.07 mgL which is lower than the regulated value1 mgL. However with Waste Extraction Test following were Thailand regulation mortars with concentration of cadmium equal or higher than 0.1% by weight were classified as hazardous waste as the concentration of cadmium leached from mortar was higher than 1.0 mgL which is the regulated value.
Freight transportation is a fast growing activity which moves in line with the economic growth. In Thailand according to the statistics from ministry of transportation road transportation carries approximately 90 percent of total goods movement. This has resulted in traffic congestion pollution high energy consumption and traffic accidents. Globally freight transportation is becoming more diversified to various modes of transportation in order to reduce dependency on road transportation. To efficiently promote the multimodal transportation in Thailand integration of transportation data is needed. Thus in this study we aimed to integrate multimodal transportation data by using GIS-based database. Data on road rail and inland-waterway transportation are included in the database due to their high share of freight transportation in Thailand. Cement sugar and cassava starch were chosen as they are major commodities in Thailand. In this study we focus only on the data concerning efficiency cost and time which will be using for the network analysis. A survey on literature both domestic and abroad unveiled the fact that all countries are maintaining mode-specific database. As a result it can not be used for multimodal transportation analysis. Thus we recommended some KPIs which will be used to reflect the efficiency of multimodal transportation management. Application of multimodal transportation database by using GIS showed that in case of short trip less than 400 km. road transportation offers the best alternative in terms of time and cost. Thus we recommended that for trip longer than 400 km. integration of road and rail transportation would be more cost effective. Our developed database should be a prototype for future development.
Tourism Planning and Developing Tourism Circuits Linking Thailand and Cambodia This research project has 3 objectives 1 To develop tourism plans for three provinces bodering Thailand and Cambodia : Sakaeo Surin and Sisaket 2 To develop viable tourism routes linking Sakaeo and Siem Reap and Sisaket and Siem Reap 3 To broaden out the tourism livelihood opportunities available in Sakaew Surin and Sisaket. Research data are collected from 5 levels which are 1 The National Tourism Plans and Policies which are specified in the National Administration Plans of B.E. 2548-2551 2 Records of history of Sakaeo Surin and Sisaket their tourism resources their tourism plans and strategies and the policies regarding overland tourism linking Thailand and Cambodia 3 At the community level tourism sites recommended by stakeholders in each community are examined. SWOT analysis for each site is carried out. 4 At the border level the physical environment around the border is examined. Tourist satisfaction regarding the border crossing is measured 5 In Siem Reap the following aspects of tourist behaviour is studied : Their arrival and departure patterns their interest in visiting tourism sites in Thailand their awareness of the border crossings at Chong Chom and Chong Sangam. The findings can be summarized as follow 1 The Thai government has a policy to encourage overland tourism across the borders adjacent to neighbouring countries. As far as overland tourism with Cambodia is concerned a tarmac road from Chong Sangam in Sasaket to Anlong Veng in Oddar Meanchey province is being built. The dirt road from Anlong Veng as well as the bridges are being graded and repaired. 2 Sakaeo province welcomed the largest number of visitors much larger than those of Surin and Sisaket. The number of visitors in Sakaeo mounted to over 1 million in 2005 A.D. Sakaeo administration is aware of their abundance in natural resources therefore eco-tourism is focused in their Tourism strategy. However tourism across the border linking Sakaeo and Cambodia is not mentioned anywhere in their strategic tourism plans. The tourists who choose to spend some time touring around Sakaeo are interested in visiting Khmer ruins and places of historical interest rather than visiting national parks or the green areas. 3 As far as the border crossing is concerned the tourists satisfaction is at the moderate level. Once they have gone through the immigration procedure the majority of the tourists travel 6 directly to Bangkok.4 Surin is the only province that has substantial plans and policies in developing tourism in their provinces. A definite strategy in linking tourism routes between Surin and Siem Reap is clearly stated. Surin is rich in both cultural and natural heritage sites. They possess a larger number of such sites than Sakaeo and Sisaket. However many sites have moderate potentials. A unique cultural event of Surin is the elephant festival which is held annually for two days each year in November. Another unique cultural site newly established is the elephant village at Ban Ta Klang. Surin is also famous for its silk and silver jewelry. Surprising by Surin welcome less visitors than Sisaket and Sakaeo. The border check-point at Chong Chom has a pleasant atmosphere and is less crowded. However the road on the Cambodia side does not lend itself to overland travel to Siem Keap and the Cambodain government does not show any signs to improve the route from Chong Chom to Siem Reap. Also the distance from this checkpoint to Siem Reap is the longest of the three routes. 5 Sisaket province does not have a substantial policy in their tourism development. Developing a tourism route between Sisaket and Siem Reap is not specified anywhere in the strategic tourism plan. However in practice the Sisaket administration has a close relationship with that of Siem Reap. They agree to pay a visit to each other twice a year. Sisaket does not have as many cultural and natural tourism sites as Surin. The distance from Chong Sangam Check point to Siem Reap is the shortest one. However a large scale development is needed at this checkpoint because it lacks all sorts of facility. Consequently it is the least used of the three checkpoints. 6 Regarding tourism in Siem Reap the majority of tourists fly into Siem Reap. The second most popular mode of travel is overland travel from Aranyaprathet-Poipet to Siem Reap. The majority of tourists in Siem Reap intend to visit Thailand after leaving Cambodia. The most popular destination in Thailand are seaside resorts in the south and the east of Thailand. The second most popular choice is the northern region. More than half of the tourists in Siem Reap are not aware of the Chong Chom checkpoint in Surin. About two-thirds are not aware of Chong Sangam is Sisaket. 7 Sakaeo Surin and Sisaket need to establish the mass transport system linking the tourist gathering spots with their major tourism sites. They also need to provide more basic facilities such as toilets restaurants and souvenir shops at the tourism sites. Also they should consider introducing the Thai-Cambodia bus system linking Sakaeo and Siem Reap Surin and Siem Reap and Sisaket and Siem Reap.
The status of Marine Protected Areas is by itself an indication of the pristine condition of the resources. In most cases local people have accessed and utilized resources prior to the formal announcement of these areas as Marine Protected status. Nevertheless continued access and utilization of resources are thus seen as acts of violation of the National Park Act 1961 among other laws. This study which is undertaken with the financial support of the Thailand Research Fund aims at studying the problems of marine protected areas including the spatial dimensions and the legal framework that concern the utilization and conservation of resources. The study area covers 24 marine protected areas 7 are located on the north side of the Andaman 9 on the southern part of the Andaman and 8 along the Gulf of Thailand. Among the findings are the observed inadequacies of protection measures which are reflected by continued encroachment and illegal cutting and wildlife poaching. In addition there are also various types of tourism activities which have been recognized to be among the causes for land use changes within MPAs. Between 2002-2009 the total numbers of visitors to MPAs was 9771476. The number of visitors to some MPAs exceed their carrying capacity with the increases in the number of visitors exceeding the ability to expand supporting facilities. Many tourists fail to understand the importance of MPAs and have not been informed of certain protocols such as noise littering collection of plants corals sea shells etc. as souvenirs. With respect to research efficient management is also hampered by inadequacies of in-depth scientific information as well as shortage of personnel and researchers particularly in the scientific aspects of changes in resources base. There are also inadequacies of funds for research as well as for monitoring of changes in both land and marine resources. The findings of this study which confirm many observed problems related to MPAs should also be considered as starting points for in-depth studies on the scientific and ecological processes of change of MPAs. Further studies should also focus on land use management as well as zoning for development of constructions and supporting facilities which relate to the tourism sector such as accommodation facilities camping areas and sign posts etc. to ensure that tourism activities do not cause negative impacts on the quality of the environment.
The objectives of this research were to study the situation of agricultural land use landholding and factors influencing land use changed as well as the impacts to other sectors to examine the necessary on agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization to provide the appropriate guideline and measurement for the future agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization. This analysis of the research was based on the secondary data from several sources. The study showed the gradually decreased of agricultural land approximately 1 million rais during 1992 to 2001. The proportion of land decreased was not so high. This was due to the fertile agricultural land was used for the other purposes and other unsuitable land for agricultural was used instead. The factors influencing the change were population increasing agricultural development policy rapidly development of transportation system high technology industrial sector tourism and real estate fluctuation of agricultural production price land resource deterioration; inefficient land used and dam construction. Reduction of fertile agricultural land affected to economic and social development of the country because agricultural sector is the source of food product job creation and income generation. However agricultural land protection has been operated more than 20 years but it still ineffective. This caused by the two major issues comprising of lack of specific law and unclear implementation guidelines for agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization. Therefore the two following aspects were needed to operate urgently; i the collaboration of all stakeholders including government agencies private sector and civil society to formulate the suitable protection model for agricultural land and ii the effective tools to push the implementation of agricultural land protection. Based on the findings the three following suggestions for agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization were; i the specific law on an agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization should be developed ii the government should establish specific organizations and support sufficient budget for operation of agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization in both national and local levels; and iii to increase peoples awareness on the essential of the agricultural land protection and sustainable utilization to involving people in policy formulation and implementation by law.
The study of monitoring the response on settlement of donkeys ear abalone Haliotis asinina larva was conducted by comparing the results from food plates inoculated with 3 different benthic diatoms Nitzchia Amphora and Navicula. The highest settlement rate of abalone larvae was found on food plates inoculated with Nitzchia 5.9+6.7% followed by those of Amphora 3.4+2.3% and Navicula 1.02+0.6% respectively. The examination of stomach content of 3-8 weeks old abalone settled on Nitzchia–inoculated plates revealed that only 7 genera of benthic diatom namely Amphora Bacillaria Cocconeis Campyrodiscus Navicula Nitzchia and Licmophora and one genus of cyanobacteria Oscillatoria were found from 20 genera found on the food plates. On the Amphora-inoculated plates 7 genera of benthic diatom namely Amphora Bacillaria Cocconeis Navicula Nitzchia Licmophora Odontella and PleurosigmaGyrosigma were found from 14 genera found on the food plates. Only 3 genera of benthic diatom namely Amphora Navicula and PleurosigmaGyrosigma were found from 16 genera found on the Navicula-inoculated plates. In each trial the frequently-found benthic diatom genera in the abalone stomach were Navicula Nitzchia and Amphora which were the dominant groups on the food plates. Asterionella was not found in the stomach of the examined-abalone and Bacillaria could be found during a certain period although it was the dominant group on the food plates. The explanation could be that Navicula Nitzchia and Amphora are single-cell diatoms which enabled the abalone to graze and digest more easily than other genera of benthic diatoms. The result of the study also showed that growth rates of abalone found on plates inoculated with different benthic diatoms during 4-8 weeks after settlement were not significantly different.
This study aims at encouraging farmers to join into groups for the production of GAP-standard safe chili and to construct a structure for fresh chili supply chain in order to reduce risks and to create self confidence among the farmers joining the program. The participatory action research was applied in this study. The findings result in the setting up of two groups of 59 safe-chili farmers from two districts. Thirty four farmers are from Kaset Somboon District while 25 are from Jaturat District. These farmers are able to produce and supply 122.97 tons of fresh safe chili and 5.91 tons of dried chili to the market. The fresh chili farmers in Kaset Somboon District obtain a net profit of 10011.71 baht per rai from selling fresh chili. This is nearly twice as much as the farmers who have not joined the program. The farmers producing dried chili live in Jaturat District. Their net profit is 569.53 baht per rai which is roughly twice as much as those not joining the program as well. The net profit of farmers in Jaturat District is much lower than that of the farmers in Kaset Somboon District. This is due to epidemics and natural calamities. The majority of the farmers are satisfied with the technology provided by the program and are determined to continue being in the program. During the next chili season the farmers are required to manage their production so as to establish connections with the market as well as the consumers. They are required to be acknowledged in terms of production costs and independent decision of production process based on marketing information provided by government officials.
The research was aimed to develop the mosquito repellant gels in order to avoid the skin irritancy after contact with repellant products. The developed products contained the combination of NN-diethyl-3-methylbenzamide DEET and volatile oils having the mosquito repellant action. The volatile oils studied were citronella oil peppermint oil holy basil oil sweet basil oil and kaffer lime oil. Carrageenan a natural polymer was used as gel-forming agent. The physical properties e.g. product appearance odor or aroma gel hardness and pH of the gel were tested and qualitatively controlled. The product stability was performed by determining the active ingredients in the products. The product shelf-life was observed from the content of DEET and oils in the products as well as the mosquito repellant efficacy. The results showed that the different ratios of emulsifiers influenced the physical propertied of the obtained gels. Stability after 2 andor 4 months of the gel bases and products at the accelerated conditions 40 °C and 75%RH and ambient conditions revealed that the gel hardness decreased and the physical appearance of some formulations was changed. The release rates of volatile oil from the products after stability test at 4 months in ambient conditions were higher than those from freshly prepared products. It is probable that the volatile oils were saturated or the physical properties of gel bases were changed after long-time storage. Release rates decreased with the increased time observed continuing for 7 days. The mosquito repellant efficacy test demonstrated that most of the gel products that contained both DEET and volatile oils had a high percent repellency. The percent repellency decreased at the third day and increased at the seventh day of the test. Efficacy of volatile oils dominated over the DEET as the percent repellency of DEET decreased when the time proceeded. The repellant gels containing citronella oil peppermint oil and kaffer lime oil showed a good mosquito repellant effect even the gels were allowed to evaporate for 7 days. Key words: mosquito repellant gel volatile oil DEET physical properties product stability mosquito repellant efficacy test
This study emphasizes on the usage of spent tea leaves which are the additional wastes in the ready-to-drink tea production. Spent tea leaves still contain active compounds and should be managed for other useful purposes. Therefore the main objectives of this study are to examine antimicrobial activity of spent tea leaves against bacteria causing periodontal diseases and dental caries develop the model product in the form of effervescent granules containing spent tea leaves extract which are easy to carry and storage and develop the model product in the form of films containing spent tea leaves extract that are effectively active against bacteria causing periodontal diseases. This technique may be applied to batch production in small sized and low cost industry. When the extract was tested with bacteria causing periodontal diseases the results showed that it could inhibit the growth of Streptococcus mutans Streptococcus sanguinis and Porphyromonas gingivalis. Other compounds commonly used in mouthwash preparations such as hexadecylpyridium chloride monohydrate peppermint oil menthol and thymol were also examined. It was demonstrated that the selected compounds had some inhibitory effects against all three pathogens with different levels but there were no synergistic effect between the tested compounds and spent tea leaves extract. In the formulation part wet granulation was chosen to prepare effervescent granules. The formulation of granules containing 2% spent tea leaves extract was the best preparation because it had acceptable physiological properties and effective inhibitory activity against all three periodontal pathogens. For film preparation the formulation containing 0.2% spent tea leaves extract was the best choice. It was clear easy to be dried and peeled stable and steady in weight and thickness. In stability test effervescent granules and films gave similar results in terms of the content of active compounds. All four active compounds were stable when kept at low temperature. However moisture content in the formulation was observed to have critical effect on the degradation of tea components. It could be concluded that storage condition that was suitable for these two preparations should be cold and prevented from humidity.
This study aimed to preliminarily search for the inulin in Thai medicinal plants in order to provide a source of inulin as feed additive. The study covered sampling and collecting plants developing criteria for plant screening developing analytical procedures to determine amount of inulin in plants testing of extracted inulin for prebiotics activities and finding optimal good-yielding condition for extraction. The data from this study would provide a guide for selecting potential Thai medicinal plants as a source of prebiotics inulin which would be valuable in agriculture and industry development. Seventeen herbal plants were screened for the presence of inulin by microscopic α-napthol-sulfuric acid staining. The TLC technique was used to examine a fructose sugar in extracts before and after hydrolysis with inulinase. The silica gel GF254 was used as stationary phase while acetone:water 9:1 was used as mobile phase. The amount of inulin in extracts was quantitatively determined by HPLC-RI and colorimetric method. The result showed that thirteen plants containing inulin. Crude extract from Asparagus racemosus Willd. had 5.50% yield of inulin whereas Hilanthus tuberosus had 4.98% yield of inulin. The potential prebiotics activity was shown in a number of studied plants such as Asparagus racemosus Willd Hilanthus tuberosu Ipomoea batatas L. Psidium guajava Allium cepa L. cv group cepa and Allium cepa L. cv group aggregatum. Interestingly ratio of extract solvent to dry plants ultrasound-assisted extraction and filter material had effects on the amount of extracted inulin. For example the highest amounts of inulin in Asparagus racemosus Willd. crude extract was obtained by using 1:2 of solvent and plants ultrasonication for 15 minutes and filtering extracts through cotton wool. Although the appearance of crude extract was good and clear when the extract was filter through carbon.
This research aimed to test the commercial products of crossbred chicken from Thai Indigenous sire x commercial dam. Four Indigenous sire breed Pradu-Hangdam Leung-Hangkao Chee and Dang and two commercial dam lines I and II were used in this study. Growth performances at different ages breast width and meat tenderness at 16 weeks of age from eight combinations of sire x dam breed were performed in the analysis. Forty Thai Indigenous sires from Department of Livestock Development and two hundred commercial dams were used in the experiment. The 2 x 4 Factorial in RCBD with four hatches as blocks were designed. Each hatch contained two replicates with thirty chickens per replication. Therefore a total of 1920 crossbred chickens were used. The experiment was conducted at Department of Animal Science Faculty of Agriculture Khoan Kaen University during October 2006 to May 2007. The carcass and meat quality were tested at Department of Food Science Faculty of Technology Khon Kaen University. At eight weeks of age the results showed that crossing between Leung-Hangkao and commercial line I gave the slowest growth in male P<0.05. However crossing between Chee and commercial line II gave the fastest growth at this age P<0.05. At sixteen weeks of age Pradu-Hangdam gave the highest body weight and average daily gain when crossing with commercial line I P<0.05. However crossing between all Thai Indigenous sire breed and commercial line II showed no significant difference P>0.05. In addition the breast width breast circumstance and carcass percentage were not different in both male and female for all combination of sire x dam breeds P > 0.05. This study also found that crossing between Pradu-Hangdam sire and commercial line II dam gave the highest breast tenderness P<0.05. In addition general combining ability GCA analysis showed that the additive genetic effects for growth performance could be ranked as Pradu-Hangdam > Leung-Hangkao > Chee > Dang. It was also found that Pradu-Hangdam had the highest additive genetic effects for breast and thigh tenderness while Leung-Hangkao had the lowest P<0.05. In addition the GCA of commercial line II was higher than commercial line I for body weight and average daily gain at all ages including breast width. The specific combining ability SCA analysis showed that crossing between Thai indigenous Chee and commercial line II significantly gave superior genetics 7for growth performance at eight weeks of age P<0.05. However the similar genetic effects for growth performance and breast width at sixteen weeks of age were similar in all four breeds of Thai indigenous x commercial line II P>0.05. The SCA was also found in crossing between Pradu-Hangdam and commercial I which gave the best genetics for growth at 16 weeks of age P<0.05. Finally this study found that crossing between Pradu-Hangdam or Leung-Hangkao and commercial II had the highest specific combining ability for breast width and breast tenderness of crossbred chicken at 16 weeks of age.